The 400 
Investment Banking Interview 
Questions & Answers 
You Need to Know 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A 
 
 
 
Production
 
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copyright 2008 – 2011 Capital Capable Media LLC.  All Rights Reserved. 
 
Notice of Rights 
 
No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any 
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without 
the prior written permission of the publisher.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
3 
 
 
 
Table of Contents – Technical Questions 
 
Introduction ...................................................................................................3 
Technical Questions & Answers .................................................................5 
Accounting Questions & Answers – Basic ............................................6 
Accounting Questions & Answers – Advanced ................................ 19 
Enterprise / Equity Value Questions & Answers – Basic ................. 25 
Enterprise / Equity Value Questions & Answers – Advanced ........ 30 
Valuation Questions & Answers – Basic ............................................. 32 
Valuation Questions & Answers – Advanced ................................... 43 
Discounted Cash Flow Questions & Answers – Basic ...................... 49 
Discounted Cash Flow Questions & Answers – Advanced ............. 58
Discounted Cash Flow Questions & Answers – Advanced ............. 58 
Merger Model Questions & Answers – Basic ..................................... 61 
Merger Model Questions & Answers – Advanced ........................... 69 
LBO Model Questions & Answers – Basic .......................................... 78 
LBO Model Questions & Answers – Advanced ................................ 85 
Brain Teaser Questions & Answers ..................................................... 92 
Introduction 
 
This guide has one purpose: to help you answer the most important “fit” and technical 
questions in investment banking interviews. We tell you what’s important and what you 
need to say – nothing more and nothing less. 
 
Most other guides suffer from several problems: 
 
1. The information is not investment banking-specific.  Do you think you’re going 
to get a question about “Why you’re interested in this position?”  I’ll tell you 
why you’re interested – because you want to make a lot of money!
why you’re interested – because you want to make a lot of money! 
2. The information is out-of-date, wrong or incomplete (see: The Vault Guide).  
These days, interviewers assume you know the basics – like how to value a 
company – and go beyond that with advanced questions that require thinking 
more than memorization.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
4 
 
 
 
3. No answers are provided, or there’s minimal direction (see: The Recruiting Guide 
to Investment Banking).  Of course, you shouldn’t memorize answers word-for-
word, but it’s helpful to have an idea of how you might structure your answers. 
4. The questions do not apply to interviewees from diverse backgrounds.  If you 
worked at Goldman Sachs this past summer it’s not hard to convince them 
you’re serious about finance – but what if you didn’t?  What if you’re making a 
career transition or you’re coming in as a more experienced hire?  That’s what 
this guide is for. 
5. The guides were not written by bankers.  If you doubt my credentials, just refer 
to Mergers & Inquisitions, where I’ve written over 300 detailed articles on 
networking, resumes, interviews, and recruiting for investment banking and 
private equity.  The proof is in the pudding.
private equity.  The proof is in the pudding. 
 
Your time is limited – so we get you the answers you need, when you need them (right 
now). 
 
What follows is a list of 400 investment banking interview questions and answers, 
divided into different types of “fit” questions (personal, team / leadership, “why 
banking,” etc.), technical questions (accounting, valuation, DCF, merger models and 
LBO models, and brain teasers), and other topics (restructuring, distressed M&A, and 
discussing transactions). 
 
This guide is quite length, but you don’t have to read everything. Pick and choose 
which sections are most relevant to you. 
 
I recommend reviewing the table of contents first and then skipping to the questions you 
are most in need of understanding.  Or you can read the entire guide all at once as well – 
it’s up to you. 
 
In either case, though, the key is to apply what you’re learning and test yourself.  Rather 
than reading everything passively, try to answer each question – and then check
than reading everything passively, try to answer each question – and then check 
whether or not you got it right.  Do that, and you’ll be several steps closer to landing 
investment banking offers. 
 
-Brian 
 
Mergers & Inquisitions 
Breaking Into Wall Street
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
5 
 
 
 
Technical Questions & Answers 
 
Technical Questions no longer consist entirely of “How would you value a company?” 
and “How does Depreciation going up by $10 affect all the statements?” 
 
Sure, you may still get these questions – and we do cover them in detail below.  But 
these days interviewers are going beyond the basics that everyone knows and asking 
questions that make you think instead. 
 
There are an infinite number of Technical Questions and it’s impossible to list everything 
you might encounter here – but these are the most common basic and advanced 
questions you might get. 
 
For Technical Questions there is almost always a “right answer” so we’ll go through 
exact answers here as well. 
 
If you find yourself not knowing the answer to a Technical Question, you shouldn’t try 
to fake it – just admit that you don’t know rather than stumbling through the answer.
to fake it – just admit that you don’t know rather than stumbling through the answer. 
 
There are a few exceptions – you really do need to know the basic concepts, like simple 
accounting and valuation.  For more advanced modeling, there’s more leeway to say 
that you don’t have much experience or don’t know the specific answer. 
 
If you want to learn everything behind the questions here in-depth, you should check out 
the Financial Modeling Fundamentals Program at a special, members-only discounted 
rate right here: 
 
• Financial Modeling Fundamentals – Members-Only Discount 
 
You must be logged into the site to view that page.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
6 
 
 
 
Accounting Questions & Answers – Basic 
 
Here are the 5 most important Accounting concepts you need to know: 
 
1. The 3 financial statements and what each one means. 
2. How the 3 statements link together and how to walk through questions where 
one or multiple items change. 
3. Different methods of accounting – cash-based vs. accrual, and determining when 
revenue and expenses are recognized. 
4. When to expense something and when to capitalize it.  Not all expenses are created 
equal. 
5. What individual items on the statements, like Goodwill, Other Intangibles and 
Shareholders’ Equity, actually mean. 
 
The questions below will cover all these concepts. 
 
1. Walk me through the 3 financial statements. 
 
“The 3 major financial statements are the Income Statement, Balance Sheet and Cash 
Flow Statement. 
 
The Income Statement gives the company’s revenue and expenses, and goes down to
Flow Statement. 
 
The Income Statement gives the company’s revenue and expenses, and goes down to 
Net Income, the final line on the statement. 
 
The Balance Sheet shows the company’s Assets – its resources – such as Cash, Inventory 
and PP&E, as well as its Liabilities – such as Debt and Accounts Payable – and 
Shareholders’ Equity.  Assets must equal Liabilities plus Shareholders’ Equity. 
 
The Cash Flow Statement begins with Net Income, adjusts for non-cash expenses and 
working capital changes, and then lists cash flow from investing and financing activities; 
at the end, you see the company’s net change in cash.” 
 
2. Can you give examples of major line items on each of the financial statements? 
 
Income Statement: Revenue; Cost of Goods Sold; SG&A (Selling, General & 
Administrative Expenses); Operating Income; Pretax Income; Net Income.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
7 
 
 
 
Balance Sheet: Cash; Accounts Receivable; Inventory; Plants, Property & Equipment 
(PP&E); Accounts Payable; Accrued Expenses; Debt; Shareholders’ Equity. 
 
Cash Flow Statement: Net Income; Depreciation & Amortization; Stock-Based 
Compensation; Changes in Operating Assets & Liabilities; Cash Flow From Operations; 
Capital Expenditures; Cash Flow From Investing; Sale/Purchase of Securities; Dividends 
Issued; Cash Flow From Financing. 
 
3. How do the 3 statements link together? 
 
“To tie the statements together, Net Income from the Income Statement flows into 
Shareholders’ Equity on the Balance Sheet, and into the top line of the Cash Flow 
Statement. 
 
Changes to Balance Sheet items appear as working capital changes on the Cash Flow 
Statement, and investing and financing activities affect Balance Sheet items such as 
PP&E, Debt and Shareholders’ Equity.  The Cash and Shareholders’ Equity items on the
PP&E, Debt and Shareholders’ Equity.  The Cash and Shareholders’ Equity items on the 
Balance Sheet act as “plugs,” with Cash flowing in from the final line on the Cash Flow 
Statement.” 
 
4. If I were stranded on a desert island, only had 1 statement and I wanted to review 
the overall health of a company – which statement would I use and why? 
 
You would use the Cash Flow Statement because it gives a true picture of how much 
cash the company is actually generating, independent of all the non-cash expenses you 
might have.  And that’s the #1 thing you care about when analyzing the overall financial 
health of any business – its cash flow. 
 
5. Let’s say I could only look at 2 statements to assess a company’s prospects – which 2 
would I use and why? 
 
You would pick the Income Statement and Balance Sheet, because you can create the 
Cash Flow Statement from both of those (assuming, of course that you have “before” 
and “after” versions of the Balance Sheet that correspond to the same period the Income
and “after” versions of the Balance Sheet that correspond to the same period the Income 
Statement is tracking). 
 
6. Walk me through how Depreciation going up by $10 would affect the statements.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
8 
 
 
 
Income Statement: Operating Income would decline by $10 and assuming a 40% tax rate, 
Net Income would go down by $6.   
 
Cash Flow Statement: The Net Income at the top goes down by $6, but the $10 
Depreciation is a non-cash expense that gets added back, so overall Cash Flow from 
Operations goes up by $4.  There are no changes elsewhere, so the overall Net Change in 
Cash goes up by $4. 
 
Balance Sheet: Plants, Property & Equipment goes down by $10 on the Assets side 
because of the Depreciation, and Cash is up by $4 from the changes on the Cash Flow 
Statement. 
 
Overall, Assets is down by $6.  Since Net Income fell by $6 as well, Shareholders’ Equity 
on the Liabilities & Shareholders’ Equity side is down by $6 and both sides of the 
Balance Sheet balance. 
 
Note: With this type of question I always recommend going in the order:  
 
1. Income Statement 
2. Cash Flow Statement 
3. Balance Sheet
1. Income Statement 
2. Cash Flow Statement 
3. Balance Sheet 
 
This is so you can check yourself at the end and make sure the Balance Sheet balances. 
 
Remember that an Asset going up decreases your Cash Flow, whereas a Liability going 
up increases your Cash Flow. 
 
7. If Depreciation is a non-cash expense, why does it affect the cash balance? 
 
Although Depreciation is a non-cash expense, it is tax-deductible.  Since taxes are a cash 
expense, Depreciation affects cash by reducing the amount of taxes you pay. 
 
8. Where does Depreciation usually show up on the Income Statement? 
 
It could be in a separate line item, or it could be embedded in Cost of Goods Sold or 
Operating Expenses – every company does it differently. Note that the end result for 
accounting questions is the same: Depreciation always reduces Pre-Tax Income. 
 
9. What happens when Accrued Compensation goes up by $10?
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
9 
 
 
 
 
For this question, confirm that the accrued compensation is now being recognized as an 
expense (as opposed to just changing non-accrued to accrued compensation). 
 
Assuming that’s the case, Operating Expenses on the Income Statement go up by $10, 
Pre-Tax Income falls by $10, and Net Income falls by $6 (assuming a 40% tax rate).  
 
On the Cash Flow Statement, Net Income is down by $6, and Accrued Compensation 
will increase Cash Flow by $10, so overall Cash Flow from Operations is up by $4 and the 
Net Change in Cash at the bottom is up by $4. 
 
On the Balance Sheet, Cash is up by $4 as a result, so Assets are up by $4. On the 
Liabilities & Equity side, Accrued Compensation is a liability so Liabilities are up by $10 
and Retained Earnings are down by $6 due to the Net Income, so both sides balance. 
 
10. What happens when Inventory goes up by $10, assuming you pay for it with cash?
10. What happens when Inventory goes up by $10, assuming you pay for it with cash? 
 
No changes to the Income Statement. 
 
On the Cash Flow Statement, Inventory is an asset so that decreases your Cash Flow from 
Operations – it goes down by $10, as does the Net Change in Cash at the bottom. 
 
On the Balance Sheet under Assets, Inventory is up by $10 but Cash is down by $10, so 
the changes cancel out and Assets still equals Liabilities & Shareholders’ Equity. 
 
11. Why is the Income Statement not affected by changes in Inventory? 
 
This is a common interview mistake – incorrectly stating that Working Capital changes 
show up on the Income Statement. 
 
In the case of Inventory, the expense is only recorded when the goods associated with it 
are sold – so if it’s just sitting in a warehouse, it does not count as a Cost of Good Sold or 
Operating Expense until the company manufactures it into a product and sells it.
Operating Expense until the company manufactures it into a product and sells it. 
 
12. Let’s say Apple is buying $100 worth of new iPad factories with debt.  How are all 
3 statements affected at the start of “Year 1,” before anything else happens? 
 
At the start of “Year 1,” before anything else has happened, there would be no changes 
on Apple’s Income Statement (yet).
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
10 
 
 
 
 
On the Cash Flow Statement, the additional investment in factories would show up 
under Cash Flow from Investing as a net reduction in Cash Flow (so Cash Flow is down 
by $100 so far).  And the additional $100 worth of debt raised would show up as an 
addition to Cash Flow, canceling out the investment activity.  So the cash number stays 
the same. 
 
On the Balance Sheet, there is now an additional $100 worth of factories in the Plants, 
Property & Equipment line, so PP&E is up by $100 and Assets is therefore up by $100.  
On the other side, debt is up by $100 as well and so both sides balance. 
  
13. Now let’s go out 1 year, to the start of Year 2.  Assume the debt is high-yield so no 
principal is paid off, and assume an interest rate of 10%.  Also assume the factories 
depreciate at a rate of 10% per year.  What happens? 
 
After a year has passed, Apple must pay interest expense and must record the 
depreciation.
After a year has passed, Apple must pay interest expense and must record the 
depreciation. 
 
Operating Income would decrease by $10 due to the 10% depreciation charge each year, 
and the $10 in additional Interest Expense would decrease the Pre-Tax Income by $20 
altogether ($10 from the depreciation and $10 from Interest Expense). 
 
Assuming a tax rate of 40%, Net Income would fall by $12. 
 
On the Cash Flow Statement, Net Income at the top is down by $12.  Depreciation is a 
non-cash expense, so you add it back and the end result is that Cash Flow from 
Operations is down by $2. 
 
That’s the only change on the Cash Flow Statement, so overall Cash is down by $2. 
 
On the Balance Sheet, under Assets, Cash is down by $2 and PP&E is down by $10 due 
to the depreciation, so overall Assets are down by $12. 
 
On the other side, since Net Income was down by $12, Shareholders’ Equity is also 
down by $12 and both sides balance.
down by $12 and both sides balance. 
 
Remember, the debt number under Liabilities does not change since we’ve assumed 
none of the debt is actually paid back.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
11 
 
 
 
14. At the start of Year 3, the factories all break down and the value of the equipment 
is written down to $0.  The loan must also be paid back now.  Walk me through the 3 
statements. 
 
After 2 years, the value of the factories is now $80 if we go with the 10% depreciation per 
year assumption.  It is this $80 that we will write down in the 3 statements. 
 
First, on the Income Statement, the $80 write-down shows up in the Pre-Tax Income line.  
With a 40% tax rate, Net Income declines by $48. 
 
On the Cash Flow Statement, Net Income is down by $48 but the write-down is a non-
cash expense, so we add it back – and therefore Cash Flow from Operations increases by 
$32. 
 
There are no changes under Cash Flow from Investing, but under Cash Flow from 
Financing there is a $100 charge for the loan payback – so Cash Flow from Investing falls 
by $100. 
 
Overall, the Net Change in Cash falls by $68.
by $100. 
 
Overall, the Net Change in Cash falls by $68. 
 
On the Balance Sheet, Cash is now down by $68 and PP&E is down by $80, so Assets 
have decreased by $148 altogether. 
 
On the other side, Debt is down $100 since it was paid off, and since Net Income was 
down by $48, Shareholders’ Equity is down by $48 as well.  Altogether, Liabilities & 
Shareholders’ Equity are down by $148 and both sides balance. 
 
15. Now let’s look at a different scenario and assume Apple is ordering $10 of 
additional iPad inventory, using cash on hand.  They order the inventory, but they 
have not manufactured or sold anything yet – what happens to the 3 statements? 
 
No changes to the Income Statement. 
 
Cash Flow Statement – Inventory is up by $10, so Cash Flow from Operations decreases 
by $10.  There are no further changes, so overall Cash is down by $10. 
 
On the Balance Sheet, Inventory is up by $10 and Cash is down by $10 so the Assets 
number stays the same and the Balance Sheet remains in balance.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
12 
 
 
 
16. Now let’s say they sell the iPads for revenue of $20, at a cost of $10.  Walk me 
through the 3 statements under this scenario. 
 
Income Statement: Revenue is up by $20 and COGS is up by $10, so Gross Profit is up by 
$10 and Operating Income is up by $10 as well.  Assuming a 40% tax rate, Net Income is 
up by $6. 
 
Cash Flow Statement: Net Income at the top is up by $6 and Inventory has decreased by 
$10 (since we just manufactured the inventory into real iPads), which is a net addition to 
cash flow – so Cash Flow from Operations is up by $16 overall. 
 
These are the only changes on the Cash Flow Statement, so Net Change in Cash is up by 
$16. 
 
On the Balance Sheet, Cash is up by $16 and Inventory is down by $10, so Assets is up 
by $6 overall. 
 
On the other side, Net Income was up by $6 so Shareholders’ Equity is up by $6 and 
both sides balance.
both sides balance. 
 
17. Could you ever end up with negative shareholders’ equity?  What does it mean? 
 
Yes.  It is common to see this in 2 scenarios: 
 
1. Leveraged Buyouts with dividend recapitalizations – it means that the owner of 
the company has taken out a large portion of its equity (usually in the form of 
cash), which can sometimes turn the number negative. 
2. It can also happen if the company has been losing money consistently and 
therefore has a declining Retained Earnings balance, which is a portion of 
Shareholders’ Equity. 
 
It doesn’t “mean” anything in particular, but it can be a cause for concern and possibly 
demonstrate that the company is struggling (in the second scenario). 
 
Note: Shareholders’ equity never turns negative immediately after an LBO – it would only 
happen following a dividend recap or continued net losses. 
 
18. What is Working Capital? How is it used?
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
13 
 
 
 
Working Capital = Current Assets – Current Liabilities. 
 
If it’s positive, it means a company can pay off its short-term liabilities with its short-
term assets. It is often presented as a financial metric and its magnitude and sign 
(negative or positive) tells you whether or not the company is “sound.” 
 
Bankers look at Operating Working Capital more commonly in models, and that is 
defined as (Current Assets – Cash & Cash Equivalents) – (Current Liabilities – Debt). 
 
The point of Operating Working Capital is to exclude items that relate to a company’s 
financing activities – cash and debt – from the calculation. 
 
19. What does negative Working Capital mean? Is that a bad sign? 
 
Not necessarily. It depends on the type of company and the specific situation – here are 
a few different things it could mean: 
 
1. Some companies with subscriptions or longer-term contracts often have negative
1. Some companies with subscriptions or longer-term contracts often have negative 
Working Capital because of high Deferred Revenue balances. 
2. Retail and restaurant companies like Amazon, Wal-Mart, and McDonald’s often 
have negative Working Capital because customers pay upfront – so they can use 
the cash generated to pay off their Accounts Payable rather than keeping a large 
cash balance on-hand. This can be a sign of business efficiency. 
3. In other cases, negative Working Capital could point to financial trouble or 
possible bankruptcy (for example, when customers don’t pay quickly and upfront 
and the company is carrying a high debt balance). 
 
20. Recently, banks have been writing down their assets and taking huge quarterly 
losses. Walk me through what happens on the 3 statements when there’s a write-
down of $100. 
 
First, on the Income Statement, the $100 write-down shows up in the Pre-Tax Income 
line.  With a 40% tax rate, Net Income declines by $60.
line.  With a 40% tax rate, Net Income declines by $60. 
 
On the Cash Flow Statement, Net Income is down by $60 but the write-down is a non-
cash expense, so we add it back – and therefore Cash Flow from Operations increases by 
$40. 
 
Overall, the Net Change in Cash rises by $40.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
14 
 
 
 
 
On the Balance Sheet, Cash is now up by $40 and an asset is down by $100 (it’s not clear 
which asset since the question never stated the specific asset to write-down).  Overall, the 
Assets side is down by $60. 
 
On the other side, since Net Income was down by $60, Shareholders’ Equity is also 
down by $60 – and both sides balance. 
 
21. Walk me through a $100 “bailout” of a company and how it affects the 3 
statements. 
 
First, confirm what type of “bailout” this is – Debt? Equity? A combination? The most 
common scenario here is an equity investment from the government, so here’s what 
happens: 
 
No changes to the Income Statement. On the Cash Flow Statement, Cash Flow from 
Financing goes up by $100 to reflect the government’s investment, so the Net Change in 
Cash is up by $100. 
 
On the Balance Sheet, Cash is up by $100 so Assets are up by $100; on the other side,
On the Balance Sheet, Cash is up by $100 so Assets are up by $100; on the other side, 
Shareholders’ Equity would go up by $100 to make it balance. 
 
22. Walk me through a $100 write-down of debt – as in OWED debt, a liability – on a 
company’s balance sheet and how it affects the 3 statements. 
 
This is counter-intuitive. When a liability is written down you record it as a gain on the 
Income Statement (with an asset write-down, it’s a loss) – so Pre-Tax Income goes up by 
$100 due to this write-down. Assuming a 40% tax rate, Net Income is up by $60. 
 
On the Cash Flow Statement, Net Income is up by $60, but we need to subtract that debt 
write-down – so Cash Flow from Operations is down by $40, and Net Change in Cash is 
down by $40. 
 
On the Balance Sheet, Cash is down by $40 so Assets are down by $40. On the other side, 
Debt is down by $100 but Shareholders’ Equity is up by $60 because the Net Income was 
up by $60 – so Liabilities & Shareholders’ Equity is down by $40 and it balances.
up by $60 – so Liabilities & Shareholders’ Equity is down by $40 and it balances. 
 
If this seems strange to you, you’re not alone – see this Forbes article for more on why 
writing down debt actually benefits companies accounting-wise:
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
15 
 
 
 
 
http://www.forbes.com/2009/07/31/fair-value-accounting-markets-equities-fasb.html 
 
23. When would a company collect cash from a customer and not record it as revenue? 
 
Three examples come to mind: 
 
1. Web-based subscription software. 
2. Cell phone carriers that sell annual contracts. 
3. Magazine publishers that sell subscriptions. 
 
Companies that agree to services in the future often collect cash upfront to ensure stable 
revenue – this makes investors happy as well since they can better predict a company’s 
performance. 
 
Per the rules of accounting, you only record revenue when you actually perform the 
services – so the company would not record everything as revenue right away. 
 
24. If cash collected is not recorded as revenue, what happens to it? 
 
Usually it goes into the Deferred Revenue balance on the Balance Sheet under Liabilities.
Usually it goes into the Deferred Revenue balance on the Balance Sheet under Liabilities. 
 
Over time, as the services are performed, the Deferred Revenue balance becomes real 
revenue on the Income Statement and the Deferred Revenue balance decreases. 
 
25. What’s the difference between accounts receivable and deferred revenue? 
 
Accounts receivable has not yet been collected in cash from customers, whereas deferred 
revenue has been.  Accounts receivable represents how much revenue the company is 
waiting on, whereas deferred revenue represents how much it has already collected in 
cash but is waiting to record as revenue. 
 
26. How long does it usually take for a company to collect its accounts receivable 
balance? 
 
Generally the accounts receivable days are in the 30-60 day range, though it’s higher for 
companies selling high-end items and it might be lower for smaller, lower transaction-
value companies.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
16 
 
 
 
27. What’s the difference between cash-based and accrual accounting? 
 
Cash-based accounting recognizes revenue and expenses when cash is actually received 
or paid out; accrual accounting recognizes revenue when collection is reasonably certain 
(i.e. after a customer has ordered the product) and recognizes expenses when they are 
incurred rather than when they are paid out in cash. 
 
Most large companies use accrual accounting because paying with credit cards and lines 
of credit is so prevalent these days; very small businesses may use cash-based 
accounting to simplify their financial statements. 
 
28. Let’s say a customer pays for a TV with a credit card.  What would this look like 
under cash-based vs. accrual accounting? 
 
In cash-based accounting, the revenue would not show up until the company charges 
the customer’s credit card, receives authorization, and deposits the funds in its bank
the customer’s credit card, receives authorization, and deposits the funds in its bank 
account – at which point it would show up as both Revenue on the Income Statement 
and Cash on the Balance Sheet. 
 
In accrual accounting, it would show up as Revenue right away but instead of appearing 
in Cash on the Balance Sheet, it would go into Accounts Receivable at first.  Then, once 
the cash is actually deposited in the company’s bank account, it would “turn into” Cash. 
 
29. How do you decide when to capitalize rather than expense a purchase? 
 
If the asset has a useful life of over 1 year, it is capitalized (put on the Balance Sheet 
rather than shown as an expense on the Income Statement).  Then it is depreciated 
(tangible assets) or amortized (intangible assets) over a certain number of years. 
 
Purchases like factories, equipment and land all last longer than a year and therefore 
show up on the Balance Sheet.  Employee salaries and the cost of manufacturing
show up on the Balance Sheet.  Employee salaries and the cost of manufacturing 
products (COGS) only cover a short period of operations and therefore show up on the 
Income Statement as normal expenses instead. 
 
30. Why do companies report both GAAP and non-GAAP (or “Pro Forma”) earnings? 
 
These days, many companies have “non-cash” charges such as Amortization of 
Intangibles, Stock-Based Compensation, and Deferred Revenue Write-down in their 
Income Statements.  As a result, some argue that Income Statements under GAAP no
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
17 
 
 
 
longer reflect how profitable most companies truly are.  Non-GAAP earnings are almost 
always higher because these expenses are excluded. 
 
31. A company has had positive EBITDA for the past 10 years, but it recently went 
bankrupt. How could this happen? 
 
Several possibilities: 
 
1. The company is spending too much on Capital Expenditures – these are not 
reflected at all in EBITDA, but it could still be cash-flow negative. 
2. The company has high interest expense and is no longer able to afford its debt. 
3. The company’s debt all matures on one date and it is unable to refinance it due to 
a “credit crunch” – and it runs out of cash completely when paying back the debt. 
4. It has significant one-time charges (from litigation, for example) and those are 
high enough to bankrupt the company. 
 
Remember, EBITDA excludes investment in (and depreciation of) long-term assets,
Remember, EBITDA excludes investment in (and depreciation of) long-term assets, 
interest and one-time charges – and all of these could end up bankrupting the company. 
 
32. Normally Goodwill remains constant on the Balance Sheet – why would it be 
impaired and what does Goodwill Impairment mean? 
 
Usually this happens when a company has been acquired and the acquirer re-assesses its 
intangible assets (such as customers, brand, and intellectual property) and finds that 
they are worth significantly less than they originally thought. 
 
It often happens in acquisitions where the buyer “overpaid” for the seller and can result 
in a large net loss on the Income Statement (see: eBay/Skype). 
 
It can also happen when a company discontinues part of its operations and must impair 
the associated goodwill. 
 
33. Under what circumstances would Goodwill increase? 
 
Technically Goodwill can increase if the company re-assesses its value and finds that it is
Technically Goodwill can increase if the company re-assesses its value and finds that it is 
worth more, but that is rare.  What usually happens is 1 of 2 scenarios: 
 
1. The company gets acquired or bought out and Goodwill changes as a result, 
since it’s an accounting “plug” for the purchase price in an acquisition.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
18 
 
 
 
2. The company acquires another company and pays more than what its assets are 
worth – this is then reflected in the Goodwill number. 
 
34. What’s the difference between LIFO and FIFO? Can you walk me through an 
example of how they differ? 
 
First, note that this question does not apply to you if you’re outside the US as IFRS does 
not permit the use of LIFO. But you may want to read this anyway because it’s good to 
know in case you ever work with US-based companies. 
 
LIFO stands for “Last-In, First-Out” and FIFO stands for “First-In, First-Out” – they are 2 
different ways of recording the value of inventory and the Cost of Goods Sold (COGS). 
 
With LIFO, you use the value of the most recent inventory additions for COGS, but 
with FIFO you use the value of the oldest inventory additions for COGS. 
 
Here’s an example: let’s say your starting inventory balance is $100 (10 units valued at
Here’s an example: let’s say your starting inventory balance is $100 (10 units valued at 
$10 each). You add 10 units each quarter for $12 each in Q1, $15 each in Q2, $17 each in 
Q3, and $20 each in Q4, so that the total is $120 in Q1, $150 in Q2, $170 in Q3, and $200 in 
Q4. 
 
You sell 40 of these units throughout the year for $30 each. In both LIFO and FIFO, you 
record 40 * $30 or $1,200 for the annual revenue. 
 
The difference is that in LIFO, you would use the 40 most recent inventory purchase 
values – $120 + $150 + $170 + $200 – for the Cost of Goods Sold, whereas in FIFO you 
would use the 40 oldest inventory values – $100 + $120 + $150 + $170 – for COGS. 
 
As a result, the LIFO COGS would be $640 and FIFO COGS would be $540, so LIFO 
would also have lower Pre-Tax Income and Net Income. The ending inventory value 
would be $100 higher under FIFO and $100 lower under FIFO. 
 
In general if inventory is getting more expensive to purchase, LIFO will produce higher
In general if inventory is getting more expensive to purchase, LIFO will produce higher 
values for COGS and lower ending inventory values and vice versa if inventory is 
getting cheaper to purchase.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
19 
 
 
 
Accounting Questions & Answers – Advanced 
 
These more advanced questions cover topics like deferred tax assets and liabilities and 
how to actually project a company’s financial statements in an operating model. 
 
You may get some of these in investment banking interviews, but they’re more common 
if you’ve had significant finance experience or you’re interviewing for private equity, or 
with a more technical group. 
 
1. How is GAAP accounting different from tax accounting? 
 
1. GAAP is accrual-based but tax is cash-based. 
2. GAAP uses straight-line depreciation or a few other methods whereas tax 
accounting is different (accelerated depreciation). 
3. GAAP is more complex and more accurately tracks assets/liabilities whereas tax 
accounting is only concerned with revenue/expenses in the current period and 
what income tax you owe. 
 
2. What are deferred tax assets/liabilities and how do they arise?
what income tax you owe. 
 
2. What are deferred tax assets/liabilities and how do they arise? 
 
They arise because of temporary differences between what a company can deduct for 
cash tax purposes vs. what they can deduct for book tax purposes. 
 
Deferred Tax Liabilities arise when you have a tax expense on the Income Statement but 
haven’t actually paid that tax in cold, hard cash yet; Deferred Tax Assets arise when you 
pay taxes in cash but haven’t expensed them on the Income Statement yet. 
 
They’re most common with asset write-ups and write-downs in M&A deals – an asset 
write-up will produce a deferred tax liability while a write-down will produce a 
deferred tax asset (see the Merger Model section for more on this). 
 
3. Walk me through how you create a revenue model for a company. 
 
There are 2 ways you could do this: a bottoms-up build and a tops-down build. 
 
• Bottoms-Up: Start with individual products / customers, estimate the average
• Bottoms-Up: Start with individual products / customers, estimate the average 
sale value or customer value, and then the growth rate in sales and sale values to 
tie everything together.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
20 
 
 
 
• Tops-Down: Start with “big-picture” metrics like overall market size, then 
estimate the company’s market share and how that will change in coming years, 
and multiply to get to their revenue. 
 
Of these two methods, bottoms-up is more common and is taken more seriously 
because estimating “big-picture” numbers is almost impossible. 
 
4. Walk me through how you create an expense model for a company. 
 
To do a true bottoms-up build, you start with each different department of a company, 
the # of employees in each, the average salary, bonuses, and benefits, and then make 
assumptions on those going forward. 
 
Usually you assume that the number of employees is tied to revenue, and then you 
assume growth rates for salary, bonuses, benefits, and other metrics. 
 
Cost of Goods Sold should be tied directly to Revenue and each “unit” produced should 
incur an expense.
incur an expense. 
 
Other items such as rent, Capital Expenditures, and miscellaneous expenses are either 
linked to the company’s internal plans for building expansion plans (if they have them), 
or to Revenue for a more simple model. 
 
5. Let’s say we’re trying to create these models but don’t have enough information or 
the company doesn’t tell us enough in its filings – what do we do? 
 
Use estimates. For the revenue if you don’t have enough information to look at separate 
product lines or divisions of the company, you can just assume a simple growth rate into 
future years. 
 
For the expenses, if you don’t have employee-level information then you can just 
assume that major expenses like SG&A are a percent of revenue and carry that 
assumption forward. 
 
6. Walk me through the major items in Shareholders’ Equity. 
 
Common items include:
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
21 
 
 
 
• Common Stock – Simply the par value of however much stock the company has 
issued. 
• Retained Earnings – How much of the company’s Net Income it has “saved up” 
over time. 
• Additional Paid in Capital – This keeps track of how much stock-based 
compensation has been issued and how much new stock employees exercising 
options have created. It also includes how much over par value a company raises 
in an IPO or other equity offering. 
• Treasury Stock – The dollar amount of shares that the company has bought back. 
• Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income – This is a “catch-all” that includes 
other items that don’t fit anywhere else, like the effect of foreign currency 
exchange rates changing. 
 
7. Walk me through what flows into Retained Earnings. 
 
Retained Earnings = Old Retained Earnings Balance + Net Income – Dividends Issued
Retained Earnings = Old Retained Earnings Balance + Net Income – Dividends Issued 
 
If you’re calculating Retained Earnings for the current year, take last year’s Retained 
Earnings number, add this year’s Net Income, and subtract however much the company 
paid out in dividends. 
 
8. Walk me through what flows into Additional Paid-In Capital (APIC). 
 
APIC = Old APIC + Stock-Based Compensation + Value of Stock Created by Option 
Exercises 
 
Take the balance from last year, add this year’s stock-based compensation number, and 
then add in the value of new stock created by employees exercising options this year. 
 
9. What is the Statement of Shareholders’ Equity and why do we use it? 
 
This statement shows everything we went through above – the major items that 
comprise Shareholders’ Equity, and how we arrive at each of them using the numbers 
elsewhere in the statement. 
 
You don’t use it too much, but it can be helpful for analyzing companies with unusual
You don’t use it too much, but it can be helpful for analyzing companies with unusual 
stock-based compensation and stock option situations.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
22 
 
 
 
10. What are examples of non-recurring charges we need to add back to a company’s 
EBIT / EBITDA when looking at its financial statements? 
 
• Restructuring Charges 
• Goodwill Impairment 
• Asset Write-Downs 
• Bad Debt Expenses 
• Legal Expenses 
• Disaster Expenses 
• Change in Accounting Procedures 
 
Note that to be an “add-back” or “non-recurring” charge for EBITDA / EBIT purposes, it 
needs to affect Operating Income on the Income Statement. So if you have one of these 
charges “below the line” then you do not add it back for the EBITDA / EBIT calculation. 
 
Also note that you do add back Depreciation, Amortization, and sometimes Stock-Based 
Compensation for EBITDA / EBIT, but that these are not “non-recurring charges” 
because all companies have them every year – these are just non-cash charges. 
 
11. How do you project Balance Sheet items like Accounts Receivable and Accrued 
Expenses in a 3-statement model?
Expenses in a 3-statement model? 
 
Normally you make very simple assumptions and assume these are percentages of 
revenue, operating expenses, or cost of goods sold. Examples: 
 
• Accounts Receivable: % of revenue. 
• Deferred Revenue: % of revenue. 
• Accounts Payable: % of COGS. 
• Accrued Expenses: % of operating expenses or SG&A. 
 
Then you either carry the same percentages across in future years or assume slight 
changes depending on the company. 
 
12. How should you project Depreciation and Capital Expenditures? 
 
The simple way: project each one as a % of revenue or previous PP&E balance.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
23 
 
 
 
The more complex way: create a PP&E schedule that splits out different assets by their 
useful lives, assumes straight-line depreciation over each asset’s useful life, and then 
assumes capital expenditures based on what the company has invested historically. 
 
13. How do Net Operating Losses (NOLs) affect a company’s 3 statements? 
 
The “quick and dirty” way to do this: reduce the Taxable Income by the portion of the 
NOLs that you can use each year, apply the same tax rate, and then subtract that new 
Tax number from your old Pretax Income number (which should stay the same). 
 
The way you should do this: create a book vs. cash tax schedule where you calculate the 
Taxable Income based on NOLs, and then look at what you would pay in taxes without 
the NOLs.  Then you book the difference as an increase to the Deferred Tax Liability on 
the Balance Sheet.
the Balance Sheet. 
 
This method reflects the fact that you’re saving on cash flow – since the DTL, a liability, 
is rising – but correctly separates the NOL impact into book vs. cash taxes. 
 
14. What’s the difference between capital leases and operating leases? 
 
Operating leases are used for short-term leasing of equipment and property, and do not 
involve ownership of anything. Operating lease expenses show up as operating 
expenses on the Income Statement. 
 
Capital leases are used for longer-term items and give the lessee ownership rights; they 
depreciate and incur interest payments, and are counted as debt. 
 
A lease is a capital lease if any one of the following 4 conditions is true: 
 
1. If there’s a transfer of ownership at the end of the term. 
2. If there’s an option to purchase the asset at a bargain price at the end of the term. 
3. If the term of the lease is greater than 75% of the useful life of the asset.
3. If the term of the lease is greater than 75% of the useful life of the asset. 
4. If the present value of the lease payments is greater than 90% of the asset’s fair 
market value. 
 
15. Why would the Depreciation & Amortization number on the Income Statement be 
different from what’s on the Cash Flow Statement?
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
24 
 
 
 
This happens if D&A is embedded in other Income Statement line items. When this 
happens, you need to use the Cash Flow Statement number to arrive at EBITDA because 
otherwise you’re undercounting D&A.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
25 
 
 
 
Enterprise / Equity Value Questions & Answers – Basic 
 
For the most part, Enterprise Value and Equity Value questions are straightforward.  
Just make sure you know all the relevant formulas and understand concepts like the 
Treasury Stock Method for calculating diluted shares. 
 
1. Why do we look at both Enterprise Value and Equity Value? 
 
Enterprise Value represents the value of the company that is attributable to all investors; 
Equity Value only represents the portion available to shareholders (equity investors).  
You look at both because Equity Value is the number the public-at-large sees, while 
Enterprise Value represents its true value. 
 
2. When looking at an acquisition of a company, do you pay more attention to 
Enterprise or Equity Value? 
 
Enterprise Value, because that’s how much an acquirer really “pays” and includes the 
often mandatory debt repayment. 
 
3. What’s the formula for Enterprise Value?
often mandatory debt repayment. 
 
3. What’s the formula for Enterprise Value? 
 
EV = Equity Value + Debt + Preferred Stock + Noncontrolling Interest – Cash 
 
This formula does not tell the whole story and can get more complex – see the Advanced 
Questions. Most of the time you can get away with stating this formula in an interview, 
though. 
 
“Noncontrolling Interest” was formerly known as Minority Interest and some bankers 
still call it that. 
 
4. Why do you need to add the Noncontrolling Interest to Enterprise Value? 
 
Whenever a company owns over 50% of another company, it is required to report the 
financial performance of the other company as part of its own performance. 
 
So even though it doesn’t own 100%, it reports 100% of the majority-owned subsidiary’s 
financial performance.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
26 
 
 
 
In keeping with the “apples-to-apples” theme, you must add the Noncontrolling Interest 
to get to Enterprise Value so that your numerator and denominator both reflect 100% of 
the majority-owned subsidiary. 
 
5. How do you calculate fully diluted shares? 
 
Take the basic share count and add in the dilutive effect of stock options and any other 
dilutive securities, such as warrants, convertible debt or convertible preferred stock. 
 
To calculate the dilutive effect of options, you use the Treasury Stock Method (detail on 
this below). 
 
6. Let’s say a company has 100 shares outstanding, at a share price of $10 each.  It also 
has 10 options outstanding at an exercise price of $5 each – what is its fully diluted 
equity value? 
 
Its basic equity value is $1,000 (100 * $10 = $1,000).  To calculate the dilutive effect of the 
options, first you note that the options are all “in-the-money” – their exercise price is less
options, first you note that the options are all “in-the-money” – their exercise price is less 
than the current share price. 
 
When these options are exercised, there will be 10 new shares created – so the share 
count is now 110 rather than 100. 
 
However, that doesn’t tell the whole story.  In order to exercise the options, we had to 
“pay” the company $5 for each option (the exercise price). 
 
As a result, it now has $50 in additional cash, which it now uses to buy back 5 of the new 
shares we created. 
 
So the fully diluted share count is 105, and the fully diluted equity value is $1,050. 
 
7. Let’s say a company has 100 shares outstanding, at a share price of $10 each.  It also 
has 10 options outstanding at an exercise price of $15 each – what is its fully diluted 
equity value? 
 
$1,000.  In this case the options’ exercise price is above the current share price, so they 
have no dilutive effect.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
27 
 
 
 
8. Why do you subtract cash in the formula for Enterprise Value?  Is that always 
accurate? 
 
The “official” reason: Cash is subtracted because it’s considered a non-operating asset 
and because Equity Value implicitly accounts for it. 
 
The way I think about it: In an acquisition, the buyer would “get” the cash of the seller, 
so it effectively pays less for the company based on how large its cash balance is.  
Remember, Enterprise Value tells us how much you’d really have to “pay” to acquire 
another company. 
 
It’s not always accurate because technically you should be subtracting only excess cash – 
the amount of cash a company has above the minimum cash it requires to operate. 
 
9. Is it always accurate to add Debt to Equity Value when calculating Enterprise Value? 
 
In most cases, yes, because the terms of a debt agreement usually say that debt must be
In most cases, yes, because the terms of a debt agreement usually say that debt must be 
refinanced in an acquisition.  And in most cases a buyer will pay off a seller’s debt, so it 
is accurate to say that any debt “adds” to the purchase price. 
 
However, there could always be exceptions where the buyer does not pay off the debt.  
These are rare and I’ve personally never seen it, but once again “never say never” 
applies. 
 
10. Could a company have a negative Enterprise Value?  What would that mean? 
 
Yes.  It means that the company has an extremely large cash balance, or an extremely 
low market capitalization (or both).  You see it with: 
 
1. Companies on the brink of bankruptcy. 
2. Financial institutions, such as banks, that have large cash balances – but 
Enterprise Value is not even used for commercial banks in the first place so this 
doesn’t matter much. 
 
11. Could a company have a negative Equity Value?  What would that mean?
doesn’t matter much. 
 
11. Could a company have a negative Equity Value?  What would that mean? 
 
No.  This is not possible because you cannot have a negative share count and you cannot 
have a negative share price.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
28 
 
 
 
12. Why do we add Preferred Stock to get to Enterprise Value? 
 
Preferred Stock pays out a fixed dividend, and preferred stock holders also have a 
higher claim to a company’s assets than equity investors do.  As a result, it is seen as 
more similar to debt than common stock. 
 
13. How do you account for convertible bonds in the Enterprise Value formula? 
 
If the convertible bonds are in-the-money, meaning that the conversion price of the 
bonds is below the current share price, then you count them as additional dilution to the 
Equity Value; if they’re out-of-the-money then you count the face value of the 
convertibles as part of the company’s Debt. 
 
14. A company has 1 million shares outstanding at a value of $100 per share. It also 
has $10 million of convertible bonds, with par value of $1,000 and a conversion price 
of $50. How do I calculate diluted shares outstanding?
of $50. How do I calculate diluted shares outstanding? 
 
This gets confusing because of the different units involved. First, note that these 
convertible bonds are in-the-money because the company’s share price is $100, but the 
conversion price is $50. So we count them as additional shares rather than debt. 
 
Next, we need to divide the value of the convertible bonds – $10 million – by the par 
value – $1,000 – to figure out how many individual bonds we get: 
 
$10 million / $1,000 = 10,000 convertible bonds. 
 
Next, we need to figure out how many shares this number represents. The number of 
shares per bond is the par value divided by the conversion price: 
 
$1,000 / $50 = 20 shares per bond. 
 
So we have 200,000 new shares (20 * 10,000) created by the convertibles, giving us 1.2 
million diluted shares outstanding. 
 
We do not use the Treasury Stock Method with convertibles because the company is 
not “receiving” any cash from us.
not “receiving” any cash from us. 
 
15. What’s the difference between Equity Value and Shareholders’ Equity?
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
29 
 
 
 
Equity Value is the market value and Shareholders’ Equity is the book value. Equity 
Value can never be negative because shares outstanding and share prices can never be 
negative, whereas Shareholders’ Equity could be any value. For healthy companies, 
Equity Value usually far exceeds Shareholders’ Equity.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
30 
 
 
 
Enterprise / Equity Value Questions & Answers – Advanced 
 
These more advanced questions cover some of the “problems” with the traditional 
formula for Enterprise Value, as well as details about book value and market value. 
You’re not likely to get these in the standard entry-level investment banking interview, 
but it’s always good to be prepared. 
 
1. Are there any problems with the Enterprise Value formula you just gave me? 
 
Yes – it’s too simple. There are lots of other things you need to add into the formula with 
real companies: 
 
• Net Operating Losses – Should be valued and arguably added in, similar to cash. 
• Long-Term Investments – These should be counted, similar to cash. 
• Equity Investments – Any investments in other companies should also be added 
in, similar to cash (though they might be discounted). 
• Capital Leases – Like debt, these have interest payments – so they should be 
added in like debt.
added in like debt. 
• (Some) Operating Leases – Sometimes you need to convert operating leases to 
capital leases and add them as well. 
• Unfunded Pension Obligations – Sometimes these are counted as debt as well. 
 
So a more “correct” formula would be Enterprise Value = Equity Value – Cash + Debt + 
Preferred Stock + Noncontrolling Interest – NOLs – LT and Equity Investments + Capital 
Leases + Unfunded Pension Obligations… 
 
In interviews, usually you can get away with saying “Enterprise Value = Equity Value – 
Cash + Debt + Preferred Stock + Noncontrolling Interest” 
 
I mention this here because in more advanced interviews you might get questions on 
this topic. 
 
2. Should you use the book value or market value of each item when calculating 
Enterprise Value? 
 
Technically, you should use market value for everything. In practice, however, you 
usually use market value only for the Equity Value portion, because it’s almost
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
31 
 
 
 
impossible to establish market values for the rest of the items in the formula – so you 
just take the numbers from the company’s Balance Sheet. 
 
3. What percentage dilution in Equity Value is “too high?” 
 
There’s no strict “rule” here but most bankers would say that anything over 10% is odd. 
If your basic Equity Value is $100 million and the diluted Equity Value is $115 million, 
you might want to check your calculations – it’s not necessarily wrong, but over 10% 
dilution is unusual for most companies.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
32 
 
 
 
Valuation Questions & Answers – Basic 
 
These days, you need to have a better-than-average understanding of Valuation.  Forget 
about just knowing the 3 methodologies – you need to understand how and why they’re 
used, which ones produce the highest or lowest values and also keep in mind exceptions 
to each “rule.” 
 
1. What are the 3 major valuation methodologies? 
 
Comparable Companies, Precedent Transactions and Discounted Cash Flow Analysis. 
 
2. Rank the 3 valuation methodologies from highest to lowest expected value. 
 
Trick question – there is no ranking that always holds.  In general, Precedent 
Transactions will be higher than Comparable Companies due to the Control Premium 
built into acquisitions. 
 
Beyond that, a DCF could go either way and it’s best to say that it’s more variable than 
other methodologies.  Often it produces the highest value, but it can produce the lowest
other methodologies.  Often it produces the highest value, but it can produce the lowest 
value as well depending on your assumptions. 
 
3. When would you not use a DCF in a Valuation? 
 
You do not use a DCF if the company has unstable or unpredictable cash flows (tech or 
bio-tech startup) or when debt and working capital serve a fundamentally different role. 
For example, banks and financial institutions do not re-invest debt and working capital 
is a huge part of their Balance Sheets – so you wouldn’t use a DCF for such companies. 
 
4. What other Valuation methodologies are there? 
 
Other methodologies include: 
 
• Liquidation Valuation – Valuing a company’s assets, assuming they are sold off and 
then subtracting liabilities to determine how much capital, if any, equity investors 
receive 
• Replacement Value – Valuing a company based on the cost of replacing its assets 
• LBO Analysis – Determining how much a PE firm could pay for a company to hit a 
“target” IRR, usually in the 20-25% range
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
33 
 
 
 
• Sum of the Parts – Valuing each division of a company separately and adding them 
together at the end 
• M&A Premiums Analysis – Analyzing M&A deals and figuring out the premium 
that each buyer paid, and using this to establish what your company is worth 
• Future Share Price Analysis – Projecting a company’s share price based on the P / E 
multiples of the public company comparables, then discounting it back to its present 
value 
 
5. When would you use a Liquidation Valuation? 
 
This is most common in bankruptcy scenarios and is used to see whether equity 
shareholders will receive any capital after the company’s debts have been paid off.  It is 
often used to advise struggling businesses on whether it’s better to sell off assets 
separately or to try and sell the entire company. 
 
6. When would you use Sum of the Parts? 
 
This is most often used when a company has completely different, unrelated divisions –
This is most often used when a company has completely different, unrelated divisions – 
a conglomerate like General Electric, for example. 
 
If you have a plastics division, a TV and entertainment division, an energy division, a 
consumer financing division and a technology division, you should not use the same set 
of Comparable Companies and Precedent Transactions for the entire company. 
 
Instead, you should use different sets for each division, value each one separately, and 
then add them together to get the Combined Value. 
 
7. When do you use an LBO Analysis as part of your Valuation? 
 
Obviously you use this whenever you’re looking at a Leveraged Buyout – but it is also 
used to establish how much a private equity firm could pay, which is usually lower than 
what companies will pay. 
 
It is often used to set a “floor” on a possible Valuation for the company you’re looking at. 
 
8. What are the most common multiples used in Valuation?
8. What are the most common multiples used in Valuation? 
 
The most common multiples are EV/Revenue, EV/EBITDA, EV/EBIT, P/E (Share Price / 
Earnings per Share), and P/BV (Share Price / Book Value per Share).
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
34 
 
 
 
9. What are some examples of industry-specific multiples? 
 
Technology (Internet): EV / Unique Visitors, EV / Pageviews 
 
Retail / Airlines: EV / EBITDAR (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, 
Amortization & Rental Expense) 
 
Energy: EV / EBITDAX (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization & 
Exploration Expense), EV / Daily Production, EV / Proved Reserve Quantities 
 
Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs): Price / FFO per Share, Price / AFFO per Share 
(Funds From Operations, Adjusted Funds From Operations) 
 
Technology and Energy should be straightforward – you’re looking at traffic and energy 
reserves as value drivers rather than revenue or profit. 
 
For Retail / Airlines, you add back Rent because some companies own their own 
buildings and capitalize the expense whereas others rent and therefore have a rental 
expense.
buildings and capitalize the expense whereas others rent and therefore have a rental 
expense. 
 
For Energy, all value is derived from companies’ reserves of oil & gas, which explains 
the last 2 multiples; EBITDAX exists because some companies capitalize (a portion of) 
their exploration expenses and some expense them. You add back the exploration 
expense to normalize the numbers. 
 
For REITs, Funds From Operations is a common metric that adds back Depreciation and 
subtracts gains on the sale of property. Depreciation is a non-cash yet extremely large 
expense in real estate, and gains on sales of properties are assumed to be non-recurring, 
so FFO is viewed as a “normalized” picture of the cash flow the REIT is generating. 
 
10. When you’re looking at an industry-specific multiple like EV / Scientists or EV / 
Subscribers, why do you use Enterprise Value rather than Equity Value? 
 
You use Enterprise Value because those scientists or subscribers are “available” to all the
You use Enterprise Value because those scientists or subscribers are “available” to all the 
investors (both debt and equity) in a company. The same logic doesn’t apply to 
everything, though – you need to think through the multiple and see which investors 
the particular metric is “available” to. 
 
11. Would an LBO or DCF give a higher valuation?
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
35 
 
 
 
 
Technically it could go either way, but in most cases the LBO will give you a lower 
valuation.  
 
Here’s the easiest way to think about it: with an LBO, you do not get any value from the 
cash flows of a company in between Year 1 and the final year – you’re only valuing it 
based on its terminal value. 
 
With a DCF, by contrast, you’re taking into account both the company’s cash flows in 
between and its terminal value, so values tend to be higher. 
 
Note: Unlike a DCF, an LBO model by itself does not give a specific valuation.  Instead, 
you set a desired IRR and determine how much you could pay for the company (the 
valuation) based on that. 
 
12. How would you present these Valuation methodologies to a company or its 
investors? 
 
Usually you use a “football field” chart where you show the valuation range implied by 
each methodology.  You always show a range rather than one specific number.
each methodology.  You always show a range rather than one specific number. 
 
As an example, see page 10 of this document (a Valuation done by Credit Suisse for the 
Leveraged Buyout of Sungard Data Systems in 2005): 
 
http://edgar.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/789388/000119312505074184/dex99c2.htm 
 
13. How would you value an apple tree? 
 
The same way you would value a company: by looking at what comparable apple trees 
are worth (relative valuation) and the value of the apple tree’s cash flows (intrinsic 
valuation). 
 
Yes, you could do a DCF for anything – even an apple tree. 
 
14. Why can’t you use Equity Value / EBITDA as a multiple rather than Enterprise 
Value / EBITDA?
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
36 
 
 
 
EBITDA is available to all investors in the company – rather than just equity holders.  
Similarly, Enterprise Value is also available to all shareholders so it makes sense to pair 
them together. 
 
Equity Value / EBITDA, however, is comparing apples to oranges because Equity Value 
does not reflect the company’s entire capital structure – only the part available to equity 
investors. 
 
15. When would a Liquidation Valuation produce the highest value? 
 
This is highly unusual, but it could happen if a company had substantial hard assets but 
the market was severely undervaluing it for a specific reason (such as an earnings miss 
or cyclicality). 
 
As a result, the company’s Comparable Companies and Precedent Transactions would 
likely produce lower values as well – and if its assets were valued highly enough, 
Liquidation Valuation might give a higher value than other methodologies.
Liquidation Valuation might give a higher value than other methodologies. 
 
16. Let’s go back to 2004 and look at Facebook back when it had no profit and no 
revenue.  How would you value it? 
 
You would use Comparable Companies and Precedent Transactions and look at more 
“creative” multiples such as EV/Unique Visitors and EV/Pageviews rather than 
EV/Revenue or EV/EBITDA. 
 
You would not use a “far in the future DCF” because you can’t reasonably predict cash 
flows for a company that is not even making money yet. 
 
This is a very common wrong answer given by interviewees.  When you can’t predict 
cash flow, use other metrics – don’t try to predict cash flow anyway! 
 
17. What would you use in conjunction with Free Cash Flow multiples – Equity Value 
or Enterprise Value? 
 
Trick question.  For Unlevered Free Cash Flow, you would use Enterprise Value, but for 
Levered Free Cash Flow you would use Equity Value. 
 
Remember, Unlevered Free Cash Flow excludes Interest and thus represents money
Remember, Unlevered Free Cash Flow excludes Interest and thus represents money 
available to all investors, whereas Levered FCF already includes the effects of the
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
37 
 
 
 
Interest expense (and mandatory debt repayments) and the money is therefore only 
available to equity investors. 
 
Debt investors have already “been paid” with the interest payments and principal re 
payments they received. 
 
18. You never use Equity Value / EBITDA, but are there any cases where you might 
use Equity Value / Revenue? 
 
It’s very rare to see this, but sometimes large financial institutions with big cash balances 
have negative Enterprise Values – so you might use Equity Value / Revenue instead. 
 
You might see Equity Value / Revenue if you’ve listed a set of financial institutions and 
non-financial institutions on a slide, you’re showing Revenue multiples for the non-
financial institutions, and you want to show something similar for the financial 
institutions. 
 
Note, however, that in most cases you would be using other multiples such as P/E and 
P/BV with banks anyway.
P/BV with banks anyway. 
 
19. How do you select Comparable Companies / Precedent Transactions? 
 
The 3 main ways to select companies and transactions: 
 
1. Industry classification 
2. Financial criteria (Revenue, EBITDA, etc.) 
3. Geography 
 
For Precedent Transactions, you often limit the set based on date and only look at 
transactions within the past 1-2 years. 
 
The most important factor is industry – that is always used to screen for 
companies/transactions, and the rest may or may not be used depending on how specific 
you want to be. 
 
Here are a few examples: 
 
Comparable Company Screen: Oil & gas producers with market caps over $5 billion
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
38 
 
 
 
Comparable Company Screen: Digital media companies with over $100 million in 
revenue 
 
Precedent Transaction Screen: Airline M&A transactions over the past 2 years involving 
sellers with over $1 billion in revenue 
 
Precedent Transaction Screen: Retail M&A transactions over the past year 
 
20. How do you apply the 3 valuation methodologies to actually get a value for the 
company you’re looking at? 
 
Sometimes this simple fact gets lost in discussion of Valuation methodologies.  You take 
the median multiple of a set of companies or transactions, and then multiply it by the 
relevant metric from the company you’re valuing. 
 
Example: If the median EBITDA multiple from your set of Precedent Transactions is 8x 
and your company’s EBITDA is $500 million, the implied Enterprise Value would be $4 
billion. 
 
To get the “football field” valuation graph you often see, you look at the minimum,
billion. 
 
To get the “football field” valuation graph you often see, you look at the minimum, 
maximum, 25th percentile and 75th percentile in each set as well and create a range of 
values based on each methodology. 
 
21. What do you actually use a valuation for? 
 
Usually you use it in pitch books and in client presentations when you’re providing 
updates and telling them what they should expect for their own valuation. 
 
It’s also used right before a deal closes in a Fairness Opinion, a document a bank creates 
that “proves” the value their client is paying or receiving is “fair” from a financial point 
of view. 
 
Valuations can also be used in defense analyses, merger models, LBO models, DCFs 
(because terminal multiples are based off of comps), and pretty much anything else in 
finance. 
 
22. Why would a company with similar growth and profitability to its Comparable 
Companies be valued at a premium?
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
39 
 
 
 
This could happen for a number of reasons: 
 
• The company has just reported earnings well-above expectations and its stock price 
has risen recently. 
• It has some type of competitive advantage not reflected in its financials, such as a 
key patent or other intellectual property. 
• It has just won a favorable ruling in a major lawsuit. 
• It is the market leader in an industry and has greater market share than its 
competitors. 
 
23. What are the flaws with public company comparables? 
 
• No company is 100% comparable to another company. 
• The stock market is “emotional” – your multiples might be dramatically higher 
or lower on certain dates depending on the market’s movements. 
• Share prices for small companies with thinly-traded stocks may not reflect their 
full value. 
 
24. How do you take into account a company’s competitive advantage in a valuation?
24. How do you take into account a company’s competitive advantage in a valuation? 
 
1. Look at the 75th percentile or higher for the multiples rather than the Medians. 
2. Add in a premium to some of the multiples. 
3. Use more aggressive projections for the company. 
 
In practice you rarely do all of the above – these are just possibilities. 
 
25. Do you ALWAYS use the median multiple of a set of public company comparables 
or precedent transactions? 
 
There’s no “rule” that you have to do this, but in most cases you do because you want to 
use values from the middle range of the set. But if the company you’re valuing is 
distressed, is not performing well, or is at a competitive disadvantage, you might use the 
25th percentile or something in the lower range instead – and vice versa if it’s doing well. 
 
26. You mentioned that Precedent Transactions usually produce a higher value than 
Comparable Companies – can you think of a situation where this is not the case?
Comparable Companies – can you think of a situation where this is not the case? 
 
Sometimes this happens when there is a substantial mismatch between the M&A market 
and the public market.  For example, no public companies have been acquired recently
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
40 
 
 
 
but there have been a lot of small private companies acquired at extremely low 
valuations. 
 
For the most part this generalization is true but there are exceptions to almost every 
“rule” in finance. 
 
27. What are some flaws with precedent transactions? 
 
• Past transactions are rarely 100% comparable – the transaction structure, size of 
the company, and market sentiment all have huge effects. 
• Data on precedent transactions is generally more difficult to find than it is for 
public company comparables, especially for acquisitions of small private 
companies. 
 
28. Two companies have the exact same financial profiles and are bought by the same 
acquirer, but the EBITDA multiple for one transaction is twice the multiple of the 
other transaction – how could this happen? 
 
Possible reasons: 
 
1. One process was more competitive and had a lot more companies bidding on the 
target.
1. One process was more competitive and had a lot more companies bidding on the 
target. 
2. One company had recent bad news or a depressed stock price so it was acquired at a 
discount. 
3. They were in industries with different median multiples. 
 
29. Why does Warren Buffett prefer EBIT multiples to EBITDA multiples? 
 
Warren Buffett once famously said, "Does management think the tooth fairy pays for 
capital expenditures?” 
 
He dislikes EBITDA because it hides the Capital Expenditures companies make and 
disguises how much cash they are actually using to finance their operations. 
 
In some industries there is also a large gap between EBIT and EBITDA – anything that is 
very capital-intensive, for example, will show a big disparity.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
41 
 
 
 
Note that EBIT itself does not include Capital Expenditures, but it does include 
Depreciation and that is directly linked to CapEx – that’s the link. If a company has a 
high Depreciation expense, chances are it has a high CapEx. 
 
30. The EV / EBIT, EV / EBITDA, and P / E multiples all measure a company’s 
profitability. What’s the difference between them, and when do you use each one? 
 
P / E depends on the company’s capital structure whereas EV / EBIT and EV / EBITDA 
are capital structure-neutral. Therefore, you use P / E for banks, financial institutions, 
and other companies where interest payments / expenses are critical. 
 
EV / EBIT includes Depreciation & Amortization whereas EV / EBITDA excludes it – 
you’re more likely to use EV / EBIT in industries where D&A is large and where capital 
expenditures and fixed assets are important (e.g. manufacturing), and EV / EBITDA in
expenditures and fixed assets are important (e.g. manufacturing), and EV / EBITDA in 
industries where fixed assets are less important and where D&A is comparatively 
smaller (e.g. Internet companies). 
 
31. If you were buying a vending machine business, would you pay a higher multiple 
for a business where you owned the machines and they depreciated normally, or one 
in which you leased the machines? The cost of depreciation and lease are the same 
dollar amounts and everything else is held constant. 
 
You would pay more for the one where you lease the machines. Enterprise Value would 
be the same for both companies, but with the depreciated situation the charge is not 
reflected in EBITDA – so EBITDA is higher, and the EV / EBITDA multiple is lower as a 
result.  For the leased situation, the lease would show up in SG&A so it would be 
reflected in EBITDA, making EBITDA lower and the EV / EBITDA multiple higher. 
 
32. How do you value a private company?
32. How do you value a private company? 
 
You use the same methodologies as with public companies: public company 
comparables, precedent transactions, and DCF. But there are some differences: 
 
• You might apply a 10-15% (or more) discount to the public company comparable 
multiples because the private company you’re valuing is not as “liquid” as the 
public comps. 
• You can’t use a premiums analysis or future share price analysis because a 
private company doesn’t have a share price.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
42 
 
 
 
• Your valuation shows the Enterprise Value for the company as opposed to the 
implied per-share price as with public companies. 
• A DCF gets tricky because a private company doesn’t have a market 
capitalization or Beta – you would probably just estimate WACC based on the 
public comps’ WACC rather than trying to calculate it. 
 
33. Let’s say we’re valuing a private company. Why might we discount the public 
company comparable multiples but not the precedent transaction multiples? 
 
There’s no discount because with precedent transactions, you’re acquiring the entire 
company – and once it’s acquired, the shares immediately become illiquid. 
 
But shares – the ability to buy individual “pieces” of a company rather than the whole 
thing – can be either liquid (if it’s public) or illiquid (if it’s private). 
 
Since shares of public companies are always more liquid, you would discount public
Since shares of public companies are always more liquid, you would discount public 
company comparable multiples to account for this.  
 
34. Can you use private companies as part of your valuation? 
 
Only in the context of precedent transactions – it would make no sense to include them 
for public company comparables or as part of the Cost of Equity / WACC calculation in 
a DCF because they are not public and therefore have no values for market cap or Beta.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
43 
 
 
 
Valuation Questions & Answers – Advanced 
 
These more advanced questions cover industry-specific valuation in more detail, as well 
as scenarios like IPO valuation, M&A premiums, and future share price analysis that are 
not likely to come up in entry-level interviews – but which could come up if you’re 
going for more advanced positions. 
 
1. How do you value banks and financial institutions differently from other 
companies? 
 
For relative valuation, the methodologies (public comps and precedent transactions) are 
the same but the metrics and multiples are different: 
 
• You screen based on assets or deposits in addition to the normal criteria. 
• You look at metrics like ROE (Return on Equity, Net Income / Shareholders’ 
Equity), ROA (Return on Assets, Net Income / Total Assets), and Book Value and 
Tangible Book Value rather than Revenue, EBITDA, and so on.
Tangible Book Value rather than Revenue, EBITDA, and so on. 
• You use multiples such as P / E, P / BV, and P / TBV rather than EV / EBITDA. 
 
Rather than a traditional DCF, you use 2 different methodologies for intrinsic valuation: 
 
• In a Dividend Discount Model (DDM) you sum up the present value of a bank’s 
dividends in future years and then add it to the present value of the bank’s 
terminal value, usually basing that on a P / BV or P / TBV multiple. 
• In a Residual Income Model (also known as an Excess Returns Model), you take 
the bank’s current Book Value and simply add the present value of the excess 
returns to that Book Value to value it. The “excess return” each year is (ROE * 
Book Value) – (Cost of Equity * Book Value) – basically how much the returns 
exceed your expectations. 
 
You need to use these methodologies and multiples because interest is a critical 
component of a bank’s revenue and because debt is a “raw material” rather than just a
component of a bank’s revenue and because debt is a “raw material” rather than just a 
financing source; also, banks’ book values are usually very close to their market caps. 
 
2. Walk me through an IPO valuation for a company that’s about to go public. 
 
1. Unlike normal valuations, in an IPO valuation we only care about public 
company comparables.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
44 
 
 
 
2. After picking the public company comparables we decide on the most relevant 
multiple to use and then estimate our company’s Enterprise Value based on that. 
3. Once we have the Enterprise Value, we work backward to get to Equity Value 
and also subtract the IPO proceeds because this is “new” cash. 
4. Then we divide by the total number of shares (old and newly created) to get its 
per-share price. When people say “An IPO priced at…” this is what they’re 
referring to. 
 
If you were using P / E or any other “Equity Value-based multiple” for the multiple in 
step #2 here, then you would get to Equity Value instead and then subtract the IPO 
proceeds from there. 
 
3. I’m looking at financial data for a public company comparable, and it’s April (Q2) 
right now. Walk me through how you would “calendarize” this company’s financial 
statements to show the Trailing Twelve Months as opposed to just the last Fiscal Year.
statements to show the Trailing Twelve Months as opposed to just the last Fiscal Year. 
 
The “formula” to calendarize financial statements is as follows: 
 
TTM = Most Recent Fiscal Year + New Partial Period – Old Partial Period 
 
So in the example above, we would take the company’s Q1 numbers, add the most 
recent fiscal year’s numbers, and then subtract the Q1 numbers from that most recent 
fiscal year. 
 
For US companies you can find these quarterly numbers in the 10-Q; for international 
companies they’re in the interim reports. 
 
4. Walk me through an M&A premiums analysis. 
 
The purpose of this analysis is to look at similar transactions and see the premiums that 
buyers have paid to sellers’ share prices when acquiring them. For example, if a 
company is trading at $10.00/share and the buyer acquires it for $15.00/share, that’s a 
50% premium. 
 
1. First, select the precedent transactions based on industry, date (past 2-3 years for 
example), and size (example: over $1 billion market cap).
example), and size (example: over $1 billion market cap). 
2. For each transaction, get the seller’s share price 1 day, 20 days, and 60 days 
before the transaction was announced (you can also look at even longer intervals, 
or 30 days, 45 days, etc.).
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
45 
 
 
 
3. Then, calculate the 1-day premium, 20-day premium, etc. by dividing the per-
share purchase price by the appropriate share prices on each day. 
4. Get the medians for each set, and then apply them to your company’s current 
share price, share price 20 days ago, etc. to estimate how much of a premium a 
buyer might pay for it. 
 
Note that you only use this analysis when valuing public companies because private 
companies don’t have share prices. Sometimes the set of companies here is exactly the 
same as your set of precedent transactions but typically it is broader. 
 
5. Walk me through a future share price analysis. 
 
The purpose of this analysis is to project what a company’s share price might be 1 or 2 
years from now and then discount it back to its present value. 
 
1. Get the median historical (usually TTM) P / E of your public company 
comparables.
1. Get the median historical (usually TTM) P / E of your public company 
comparables. 
2. Apply this P / E multiple to your company’s 1-year forward or 2-year forward 
projected EPS to get its implied future share price. 
3. Then, discount this back to its present value by using a discount rate in-line with 
the company’s Cost of Equity figures. 
 
You normally look at a range of P / E multiples as well as a range of discount rates for 
this type of analysis, and make a sensitivity table with these as inputs. 
 
6. Both M&A premiums analysis and precedent transactions involve looking at 
previous M&A transactions. What’s the difference in how we select them? 
 
• All the sellers in the M&A premiums analysis must be public. 
• Usually we use a broader set of transactions for M&A premiums – we might use 
fewer than 10 precedent transactions but we might have dozens of M&A 
premiums. The industry and financial screens are usually less stringent.
premiums. The industry and financial screens are usually less stringent. 
• Aside from those, the screening criteria is similar – financial, industry, geography, 
and date. 
 
7. Walk me through a Sum-of-the-Parts analysis.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
46 
 
 
 
In a Sum-of-the-Parts analysis, you value each division of a company using separate 
comparables and transactions, get to separate multiples, and then add up each division’s 
value to get the total for the company. Example: 
 
We have a manufacturing division with $100 million EBITDA, an entertainment division 
with $50 million EBITDA and a consumer goods division with $75 million EBITDA. 
We’ve selected comparable companies and transactions for each division, and the 
median multiples come out to 5x EBITDA for manufacturing, 8x EBITDA for 
entertainment, and 4x EBITDA for consumer goods. 
 
Our calculation would be $100 * 5x + $50 * 8x + $75 * 4x = $1.2 billion for the company’s 
total value. 
 
8. How do you value Net Operating Losses and take them into account in a valuation? 
 
You value NOLs based on how much they’ll save the company in taxes in future years,
You value NOLs based on how much they’ll save the company in taxes in future years, 
and then take the present value of the sum of tax savings in future years. Two ways to 
assess the tax savings in future years: 
 
1. Assume that a company can use its NOLs to completely offset its taxable income 
until the NOLs run out. 
2. In an acquisition scenario, use Section 382 and multiply the adjusted long-term 
rate (http://pmstax.com/afr/exemptAFR.shtml) by the equity purchase price of 
the seller to determine the maximum allowed NOL usage in each year – and then 
use that to figure out the offset to taxable income. 
 
You might look at NOLs in a valuation but you rarely add them in – if you did, they 
would be similar to cash and you would subtract NOLs to go from Equity Value to 
Enterprise Value, and vice versa. 
 
9. I have a set of public company comparables and need to get the projections from 
equity research. How do I select which report to use? 
 
This varies by bank and group, but two common methods:
This varies by bank and group, but two common methods: 
 
1. You pick the report with the most detailed information. 
2. You pick the report with numbers in the middle of the range.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
47 
 
 
 
Note that you do not pick reports based on which bank they’re coming from. So if 
you’re at Goldman Sachs, you would not pick all Goldman Sachs equity research – in 
fact that would be bad because then your valuation would not be objective. 
 
10. I have a set of precedent transactions but I’m missing information like EBITDA 
for a lot of the companies – how can I find it if it’s not available via public sources? 
 
1. Search online and see if you can find press releases or articles in the financial 
press with these numbers. 
2. Failing that, look in equity research for the buyer around the time of the 
transaction and see if any of the analysts estimate the seller’s numbers. 
3. Also look on online sources like Capital IQ and Factset and see if any of them 
disclose numbers or give estimates. 
 
11. How far back and forward do we usually go for public company comparable and 
precedent transaction multiples?
precedent transaction multiples? 
 
Usually you look at the TTM (Trailing Twelve Months) period for both sets, and then 
you look forward either 1 or 2 years. You’re more likely to look backward more than 1 
year and go forward more than 2 years for public company comparables; for precedent 
transactions it’s odd to go forward more than 1 year because your information is more 
limited. 
 
12. I have one company with a 40% EBITDA margin trading at 8x EBITDA, and 
another company with a 10% EBITDA margin trading at 16x EBITDA. What’s the 
problem with comparing these two valuations directly? 
 
There’s no “rule” that says this is wrong or not allowed, but it can be misleading to 
compare companies with dramatically different margins. Due to basic arithmetic, the 
40% margin company will usually have a lower multiple – whether or not its actual 
value is lower. 
 
In this situation, we might consider screening based on margins and remove the outliers
In this situation, we might consider screening based on margins and remove the outliers 
– you would never try to “normalize” the EBITDA multiples based on margins. 
 
13. Walk me through how we might value an oil & gas company and how it’s 
different from a “standard” company. 
 
Public comps and precedent transactions are similar, but:
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
48 
 
 
 
 
• You might screen based on metrics like Proved Reserves or Daily Production. 
• You would look at the above metrics as well as R/P (Proved Reserves / Last 
Year’s Production), EBITDAX, and other industry-specific ones, and use 
matching multiples. 
 
You could use a standard Unlevered DCF to value an oil & gas company as well, but it’s 
also common to see a NAV (Net Asset Value) Model where you take the company’s 
Proved Reserves, assume they produce revenue until depletion, assign a cost to the 
production in each year, and take the present value of those to value the company. 
 
There are also a host of other complications: oil & gas companies are cyclical and have 
no control over the prices they receive, companies use either “full-cost accounting” or 
“successful efforts accounting” and treat the exploration expense differently, and so on.
“successful efforts accounting” and treat the exploration expense differently, and so on. 
 
14. Walk me through how we would value a REIT (Real Estate Investment Trust) and 
how it differs from a “normal” company. 
 
Similar to energy, real estate is asset-intensive and a company’s value depends on how 
much cash flow specific properties generate. 
 
• You look at Price / FFO per Share (Funds From Operations) and Price / AFFO per 
Share (Adjusted Funds From Operations), which add back Depreciation and 
subtract gains on property sales. 
• A Net Asset Value (NAV) model is the most common intrinsic valuation 
methodology; you assign a cap rate to the company’s forward NOI and multiply 
to get the value of its real estate, adjust and add its other assets, subtract 
liabilities and divide by its share count to get NAV per Share, and then compare 
that to its current share price. 
• You value properties by dividing Net Operating Income (NOI) (Property’s
• You value properties by dividing Net Operating Income (NOI) (Property’s 
Gross Income – Operating Expenses and Property Taxes) by the capitalization 
rate (based on market data). 
• Replacement Valuation is more common because you can actually estimate the 
cost of buying new land and building new properties. 
• A DCF is still a DCF, but it flows from specific properties and it might be useless 
depending on what kind of company you’re valuing.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
49 
 
 
 
Discounted Cash Flow Questions & Answers – Basic 
 
Beyond knowing the basics of how to construct a DCF, you also need to understand 
concepts such as WACC, Cost of Equity and the proper discount rates to use depending 
on the scenario.  Interviewers also like to ask about Terminal Value – how you calculate 
it, advantages and disadvantages of different methods, and signs that it’s “too high.” 
 
1. Walk me through a DCF. 
 
“A DCF values a company based on the Present Value of its Cash Flows and the Present 
Value of its Terminal Value. 
 
First, you project out a company’s financials using assumptions for revenue growth, 
expenses and Working Capital; then you get down to Free Cash Flow for each year, 
which you then sum up and discount to a Net Present Value, based on your discount 
rate – usually the Weighted Average Cost of Capital. 
 
Once you have the present value of the Cash Flows, you determine the company’s
Once you have the present value of the Cash Flows, you determine the company’s 
Terminal Value, using either the Multiples Method or the Gordon Growth Method, and 
then also discount that back to its Net Present Value using WACC. 
 
Finally, you add the two together to determine the company’s Enterprise Value.” 
 
2. Walk me through how you get from Revenue to Free Cash Flow in the projections. 
 
Subtract COGS and Operating Expenses to get to Operating Income (EBIT).  Then, 
multiply by (1 – Tax Rate), add back Depreciation and other non-cash charges, and 
subtract Capital Expenditures and the change in Working Capital. 
 
Note: This gets you to Unlevered Free Cash Flow since you went off EBIT rather than 
EBT. You should confirm that this is what the interviewer is asking for. 
 
3. What’s an alternate way to calculate Free Cash Flow aside from taking Net Income, 
adding back Depreciation, and subtracting Changes in Operating Assets / Liabilities 
and CapEx?
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
50 
 
 
 
Take Cash Flow From Operations and subtract CapEx and mandatory debt repayments 
– that gets you to Levered Cash Flow. To get to Unlevered Cash Flow, you then need to 
add back the tax-adjusted Interest Expense and subtract the tax-adjusted Interest Income. 
 
4. Why do you use 5 or 10 years for DCF projections? 
 
That’s usually about as far as you can reasonably predict into the future.  Less than 5 
years would be too short to be useful, and over 10 years is too difficult to predict for 
most companies. 
 
5. What do you usually use for the discount rate? 
 
Normally you use WACC (Weighted Average Cost of Capital), though you might also 
use Cost of Equity depending on how you’ve set up the DCF. 
 
6. How do you calculate WACC? 
 
The formula is: Cost of Equity * (% Equity) + Cost of Debt * (% Debt) * (1 – Tax Rate) + 
Cost of Preferred * (% Preferred).
Cost of Preferred * (% Preferred).   
 
In all cases, the percentages refer to how much of the company’s capital structure is 
taken up by each component.   
 
For Cost of Equity, you can use the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM – see the next 
question) and for the others you usually look at comparable companies/debt issuances 
and the interest rates and yields issued by similar companies to get estimates. 
 
7. How do you calculate the Cost of Equity? 
 
Cost of Equity = Risk-Free Rate + Beta * Equity Risk Premium 
 
The risk-free rate represents how much a 10-year or 20-year US Treasury should yield; 
Beta is calculated based on the “riskiness” of Comparable Companies and the Equity 
Risk Premium is the % by which stocks are expected to out-perform “risk-less” assets. 
 
Normally you pull the Equity Risk Premium from a publication called Ibbotson’s.   
 
Note: This formula does not tell the whole story.  Depending on the bank and how
Note: This formula does not tell the whole story.  Depending on the bank and how 
precise you want to be, you could also add in a “size premium” and “industry
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
51 
 
 
 
premium” to account for how much a company is expected to out-perform its peers is 
according to its market cap or industry. 
 
Small company stocks are expected to out-perform large company stocks and certain 
industries are expected to out-perform others, and these premiums reflect these 
expectations. 
 
8. How do you get to Beta in the Cost of Equity calculation? 
 
You look up the Beta for each Comparable Company (usually on Bloomberg), un-lever 
each one, take the median of the set and then lever it based on your company’s capital 
structure.  Then you use this Levered Beta in the Cost of Equity calculation. 
 
For your reference, the formulas for un-levering and re-levering Beta are below: 
 
Un-Levered Beta = Levered Beta / (1 + ((1 - Tax Rate) x (Total Debt/Equity))) 
Levered Beta = Un-Levered Beta x (1 + ((1 - Tax Rate) x (Total Debt/Equity))) 
 
9. Why do you have to un-lever and re-lever Beta?
9. Why do you have to un-lever and re-lever Beta? 
 
Again, keep in mind our “apples-to-apples” theme.  When you look up the Betas on 
Bloomberg (or from whatever source you’re using) they will be levered to reflect the 
debt already assumed by each company. 
 
But each company’s capital structure is different and we want to look at how “risky” a 
company is regardless of what % debt or equity it has.   
 
To get that, we need to un-lever Beta each time. 
 
But at the end of the calculation, we need to re-lever it because we want the Beta used in 
the Cost of Equity calculation to reflect the true risk of our company, taking into 
account its capital structure this time. 
 
10. Would you expect a manufacturing company or a technology company to have a 
higher Beta? 
 
A technology company, because technology is viewed as a “riskier” industry than 
manufacturing.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
52 
 
 
 
 
11. Let’s say that you use Levered Free Cash Flow rather than Unlevered Free Cash 
Flow in your DCF – what is the effect? 
 
Levered Free Cash Flow gives you Equity Value rather than Enterprise Value, since the 
cash flow is only available to equity investors (debt investors have already been “paid” 
with the interest payments). 
 
12. If you use Levered Free Cash Flow, what should you use as the Discount Rate? 
 
You would use the Cost of Equity rather than WACC since we’re not concerned with 
Debt or Preferred Stock in this case – we’re calculating Equity Value, not Enterprise 
Value. 
 
13. How do you calculate the Terminal Value? 
 
You can either apply an exit multiple to the company’s Year 5 EBITDA, EBIT or Free 
Cash Flow (Multiples Method) or you can use the Gordon Growth method to estimate 
its value based on its growth rate into perpetuity.
its value based on its growth rate into perpetuity. 
 
The formula for Terminal Value using Gordon Growth is: Terminal Value = Year 5 Free 
Cash Flow * (1 + Growth Rate) / (Discount Rate – Growth Rate). 
 
14. Why would you use Gordon Growth rather than the Multiples Method to calculate 
the Terminal Value? 
 
In banking, you almost always use the Multiples Method to calculate Terminal Value in 
a DCF.  It’s much easier to get appropriate data for exit multiples since they are based on 
Comparable Companies – picking a long-term growth rate, by contrast, is always a shot 
in the dark. 
 
However, you might use Gordon Growth if you have no good Comparable Companies 
or if you have reason to believe that multiples will change significantly in the industry 
several years down the road.  For example, if an industry is very cyclical you might be 
better off using long-term growth rates rather than exit multiples. 
 
15. What’s an appropriate growth rate to use when calculating the Terminal Value?
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
53 
 
 
 
Normally you use the country’s long-term GDP growth rate, the rate of inflation, or 
something similarly conservative. 
 
For companies in mature economies, a long-term growth rate over 5% would be quite 
aggressive since most developed economies are growing at less than 5% per year. 
 
16. How do you select the appropriate exit multiple when calculating Terminal Value? 
 
Normally you look at the Comparable Companies and pick the median of the set, or 
something close to it. 
 
As with almost anything else in finance, you always show a range of exit multiples and 
what the Terminal Value looks like over that range rather than picking one specific 
number. 
 
So if the median EBITDA multiple of the set were 8x, you might show a range of values 
using multiples from 6x to 10x. 
 
17. Which method of calculating Terminal Value will give you a higher valuation?
17. Which method of calculating Terminal Value will give you a higher valuation? 
 
It’s hard to generalize because both are highly dependent on the assumptions you make.  
In general, the Multiples Method will be more variable than the Gordon Growth method 
because exit multiples tend to span a wider range than possible long-term growth rates. 
 
18. What’s the flaw with basing terminal multiples on what public company 
comparables are trading at? 
 
The median multiples may change greatly in the next 5-10 years so it may no longer be 
accurate by the end of the period you’re looking at. This is why you normally look at a 
wide range of multiples and do a sensitivity to see how the valuation changes over that 
range. 
 
This method is particularly problematic with cyclical industries (e.g. semiconductors). 
 
19. How do you know if your DCF is too dependent on future assumptions? 
 
The “standard” answer: if significantly more than 50% of the company’s Enterprise
The “standard” answer: if significantly more than 50% of the company’s Enterprise 
Value comes from its Terminal Value, your DCF is probably too dependent on future 
assumptions.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
54 
 
 
 
 
In reality, almost all DCFs are “too dependent on future assumptions” – it’s actually 
quite rare to see a case where the Terminal Value is less than 50% of the Enterprise Value. 
 
But when it gets to be in the 80-90% range, you know that you may need to re-think 
your assumptions… 
 
20. Should Cost of Equity be higher for a $5 billion or $500 million market cap 
company? 
 
It should be higher for the $500 million company, because all else being equal, smaller 
companies are expected to outperform large companies in the stock market (and 
therefore be “more risky”).  Using a Size Premium in your calculation would also ensure 
that Cost of Equity is higher for the $500 million company. 
 
21. What about WACC – will it be higher for a $5 billion or $500 million company? 
 
This is a bit of a trick question because it depends on whether or not the capital structure
This is a bit of a trick question because it depends on whether or not the capital structure 
is the same for both companies.  If the capital structure is the same in terms of 
percentages and interest rates and such, then WACC should be higher for the $500 
million company for the same reasons as mentioned above. 
 
If the capital structure is not the same, then it could go either way depending on how 
much debt/preferred stock each one has and what the interest rates are. 
 
22. What’s the relationship between debt and Cost of Equity? 
 
More debt means that the company is more risky, so the company’s Levered Beta will be 
higher – all else being equal, additional debt would raise the Cost of Equity, and less 
debt would lower the Cost of Equity. 
 
23. Cost of Equity tells us what kind of return an equity investor can expect for 
investing in a given company – but what about dividends? Shouldn’t we factor 
dividend yield into the formula?
dividend yield into the formula? 
 
Trick question. Dividend yields are already factored into Beta, because Beta describes 
returns in excess of the market as a whole – and those returns include dividends. 
 
24. How can we calculate Cost of Equity WITHOUT using CAPM?
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
55 
 
 
 
 
There is an alternate formula: 
 
Cost of Equity = (Dividends per Share / Share Price) + Growth Rate of Dividends 
 
This is less common than the “standard” formula but sometimes you use it for 
companies where dividends are more important or when you lack proper information 
on Beta and the other variables that go into calculating Cost of Equity with CAPM. 
 
25. Two companies are exactly the same, but one has debt and one does not – which 
one will have the higher WACC? 
 
The one without debt will generally have a higher WACC because debt is “less 
expensive” than equity.  Why? 
 
• Interest on debt is tax-deductible (hence the (1 – Tax Rate) multiplication in the 
WACC formula). 
• Debt is senior to equity in a company’s capital structure – debt holders would be 
paid first in a liquidation or bankruptcy scenario. 
• Intuitively, interest rates on debt are usually lower than the Cost of Equity numbers
• Intuitively, interest rates on debt are usually lower than the Cost of Equity numbers 
you see (usually over 10%).  As a result, the Cost of Debt portion of WACC will 
contribute less to the total figure than the Cost of Equity portion will. 
 
Theoretically if the company had a lot of debt, the Cost of Debt might increase and 
become greater than the Cost of Equity but that is extremely rare – the company without 
debt has a higher WACC in 99% of all cases. 
 
26. Which has a greater impact on a company’s DCF valuation – a 10% change in 
revenue or a 1% change in the discount rate? 
 
You should start by saying, “it depends” but most of the time the 10% difference in 
revenue will have more of an impact. That change in revenue doesn’t affect only the 
current year’s revenue, but also the revenue/EBITDA far into the future and even the 
terminal value. 
 
27. What about a 1% change in revenue vs. a 1% change in the discount rate?
terminal value. 
 
27. What about a 1% change in revenue vs. a 1% change in the discount rate? 
 
In this case the discount rate is likely to have a bigger impact on the valuation, though 
the correct answer should start with, “It could go either way, but most of the time…”
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
56 
 
 
 
 
28. How do you calculate WACC for a private company? 
 
This is problematic because private companies don’t have market caps or Betas. In this 
case you would most likely just estimate WACC based on work done by auditors or 
valuation specialists, or based on what WACC for comparable public companies is. 
 
29. What should you do if you don’t believe management’s projections for a DCF 
model? 
 
You can take a few different approaches: 
 
• You can create your own projections. 
• You can modify management’s projections downward to make them more 
conservative. 
• You can show a sensitivity table based on different growth rates and margins and 
show the values assuming managements’ projections and assuming a more 
conservative set of numbers. 
 
In reality, you’d probably do all of these if you had unrealistic projections. 
 
30. Why would you not use a DCF for a bank or other financial institution?
30. Why would you not use a DCF for a bank or other financial institution? 
 
Banks use debt differently than other companies and do not re-invest it in the business – 
they use it to create their “products” – loans – instead. Also, interest is a critical part of 
banks’ business models and changes in working capital can be much larger than a 
bank’s net income – so traditional measures of cash flow don’t tell you much. 
 
For financial institutions, it’s more common to use a Dividend Discount Model or 
Residual Income Model instead of a DCF. 
 
31. What types of sensitivity analyses would we look at in a DCF? 
 
Example sensitivities: 
 
• Revenue Growth vs. Terminal Multiple 
• EBITDA Margin vs. Terminal Multiple 
• Terminal Multiple vs. Discount Rate 
• Long-Term Growth Rate vs. Discount Rate
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
57 
 
 
 
 
And any combination of these (except Terminal Multiple vs. Long-Term Growth Rate, 
which would make no sense). 
 
32. A company has a high debt load and is paying off a significant portion of its 
principal each year. How do you account for this in a DCF? 
 
Trick question. You don’t account for this at all in an Unlevered DCF, because paying off 
debt principal shows up in Cash Flow from Financing on the Cash Flow Statement – but 
we only take into account EBIT * (1 – Tax Rate), and then a few items from Cash Flow 
from Operations, and then subtract Capital Expenditures to get to Unlevered Free Cash 
Flow. 
 
If we were looking at Levered Free Cash Flow, then our interest expense would decline 
in future years due to the principal being paid off – the mandatory debt repayments 
would also reduce Levered Free Cash Flow (note: some people define Levered FCF
would also reduce Levered Free Cash Flow (note: some people define Levered FCF 
differently, but if you think about it, repaying debt really does reduce the cash flow that 
can go to equity investors so it should be subtracted out here).
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
58 
 
 
 
Discounted Cash Flow Questions & Answers – Advanced 
 
These more advanced questions cover how you use a DCF “in real life” and some of the 
complexities that arise when you’re using it to value real companies. Most of these are 
more likely if you’re experienced and are interviewing for other investment banking or 
private equity positions. 
 
1. Explain why we would use the mid-year convention in a DCF. 
 
You use it to represent the fact that a company’s cash flow does not come 100% at the 
end of each year – instead, it comes in evenly throughout each year. 
 
In a DCF without mid-year convention, we would use discount period numbers of 1 for 
the first year, 2 for the second year, 3 for the third year, and so on. 
 
With mid-year convention, we would instead use 0.5 for the first year, 1.5 for the second 
year, 2.5 for the third year, and so on.
year, 2.5 for the third year, and so on. 
 
2. What discount period numbers would I use for the mid-year convention if I have a 
stub period – e.g. Q4 of Year 1 – in my DCF? 
 
The rule is that you divide the stub discount period by 2, and then you simply subtract 
0.5 from the “normal” discount periods for the future years. Example for a Q4 stub: 
 
      Q4 Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 
Normal Discount Periods with Stub: 0.25 1.25 2.25 3.25 4.25 5.25 
Mid-Year Discount Periods with Stub: 0.125 0.75 1.75 2.75 3.75 4.75 
 
3. How does the terminal value calculation change when we use the mid-year 
convention? 
 
When you’re discounting the terminal value back to the present value, you use different 
numbers for the discount period depending on whether you’re using the Multiples 
Method or Gordon Growth Method: 
 
• Multiples Method: You add 0.5 to the final year discount number to reflect the 
fact that you’re assuming the company gets sold at the end of the year.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
59 
 
 
 
• Gordon Growth Method: You use the final year discount number as is, because 
you’re assuming the cash flows grow into perpetuity and that they are still 
received throughout the year rather than just at the end. 
 
4. If I’m working with a public company in a DCF, how do I calculate its per-share 
value? 
 
Once you get to Enterprise Value, ADD cash and then subtract debt, preferred stock, 
and noncontrolling interest (and any other debt-like items) to get to Equity Value. 
 
Then, you need to use a circular calculation that takes into account the basic shares 
outstanding, options, warrants, convertibles, and other dilutive securities. It’s circular 
because the dilution from these depends on the per-share price – but the per-share price 
depends on number of shares outstanding, which depends on the per-share price. 
 
To resolve this, you need to enable iterative calculations in Excel so that it can cycle
To resolve this, you need to enable iterative calculations in Excel so that it can cycle 
through to find an approximate per-share price. 
 
5. Walk me through a Dividend Discount Model (DDM) that you would use in place 
of a normal DCF for financial institutions. 
 
The mechanics are the same as a DCF, but we use dividends rather than free cash flows: 
 
1. Project out the company’s earnings, down to earnings per share (EPS). 
2. Assume a dividend payout ratio – what percentage of the EPS actually gets paid 
out to shareholders in the form of dividends – based on what the firm has done 
historically and how much regulatory capital it needs. 
3. Use this to calculate dividends over the next 5-10 years. 
4. Do a check to make sure that the firm still meets its target Tier 1 Capital and 
other capital ratios – if not, reduce dividends. 
5. Discount the dividend in each year to its present value based on Cost of Equity – 
NOT WACC – and then sum these up.
NOT WACC – and then sum these up. 
6. Calculate terminal value based on P / BV and Book Value in the final year, and 
then discount this to its present value based on Cost of Equity. 
7. Sum the present value of the terminal value and the present values of the 
dividends to get the company’s net present per-share value. 
 
6. When you’re calculating WACC, let’s say that the company has convertible debt. Do 
you count this as debt when calculating Levered Beta for the company?
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
60 
 
 
 
 
Trick question. If the convertible debt is in-the-money then you do not count it as debt 
but instead assume that it contributes to dilution, so the company’s Equity Value is 
higher. If it’s out-of-the-money then you count it as debt and use the interest rate on the 
convertible for Cost of Debt. 
 
7. We’re creating a DCF for a company that is planning to buy a factory for $100 in 
cash (no debt or other financing) in Year 4. Currently the present value of its 
Enterprise Value according to the DCF is $200. How would we change the DCF to 
account for the factory purchase, and what would our new Enterprise Value be? 
 
In this scenario, you would add CapEx spending of $100 in year 4 of the DCF, which 
would reduce Free Cash Flow for that year by $100. The Enterprise Value, in turn, 
would fall by the present value of that $100 decrease in Free Cash Flow.
would fall by the present value of that $100 decrease in Free Cash Flow. 
 
The actual math here is messy but you would calculate the present value by dividing 
$100 by ((1 + Discount Rate)^4) – the “4” just represents year 4 here. Then you would 
subtract this amount from the Enterprise Value.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
61 
 
 
 
Merger Model Questions & Answers – Basic 
 
You don’t need to understand merger models as well as an M&A banker does, but you 
do need to more than just the basics, especially if you’ve had a finance internship or full-
time job before. 
 
It’s important to know the effects of an acquisition, and understand concepts such as 
synergies and why Goodwill & Other Intangibles actually get created. 
 
One thing that’s not important?  Walking through how all 3 statements are affected by 
an acquisition.  In 99% of cases, you only care about the Income Statement in a merger 
model (despite rumors to the contrary). 
 
1. Walk me through a basic merger model. 
 
“A merger model is used to analyze the financial profiles of 2 companies, the purchase 
price and how the purchase is made, and determines whether the buyer’s EPS increases 
or decreases.
or decreases. 
 
Step 1 is making assumptions about the acquisition – the price and whether it was cash, 
stock or debt or some combination of those.  Next, you determine the valuations and 
shares outstanding of the buyer and seller and project out an Income Statement for each 
one. 
 
Finally, you combine the Income Statements, adding up line items such as Revenue and 
Operating Expenses, and adjusting for Foregone Interest on Cash and Interest Paid on 
Debt in the Combined Pre-Tax Income line; you apply the buyer’s Tax Rate to get the 
Combined Net Income, and then divide by the new share count to determine the 
combined EPS.” 
 
2. What’s the difference between a merger and an acquisition? 
 
There’s always a buyer and a seller in any M&A deal – the difference between “merger” 
and “acquisition” is more semantic than anything. In a merger the companies are close 
to the same size, whereas in an acquisition the buyer is significantly larger. 
 
3. Why would a company want to acquire another company?
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
62 
 
 
 
Several possible reasons: 
 
• The buyer wants to gain market share by buying a competitor. 
• The buyer needs to grow more quickly and sees an acquisition as a way to do that. 
• The buyer believes the seller is undervalued. 
• The buyer wants to acquire the seller’s customers so it can up-sell and cross-sell to 
them. 
• The buyer thinks the seller has a critical technology, intellectual property or some 
other “secret sauce” it can use to significantly enhance its business. 
• The buyer believes it can achieve significant synergies and therefore make the deal 
accretive for its shareholders. 
 
4. Why would an acquisition be dilutive? 
 
An acquisition is dilutive if the additional amount of Net Income the seller contributes is 
not enough to offset the buyer’s foregone interest on cash, additional interest paid on 
debt, and the effects of issuing additional shares.
debt, and the effects of issuing additional shares. 
 
Acquisition effects – such as amortization of intangibles – can also make an acquisition 
dilutive. 
 
5. Is there a rule of thumb for calculating whether an acquisition will be accretive or 
dilutive? 
 
If the deal involves just cash and debt, you can sum up the interest expense for debt and 
the foregone interest on cash, then compare it against the seller’s Pre-Tax Income. 
 
And if it’s an all-stock deal you can use a shortcut to assess whether it is accretive (see 
question #5). 
 
But if the deal involves cash, stock, and debt, there’s no quick rule-of-thumb you can use 
unless you’re lightning fast with mental math. 
 
6. A company with a higher P/E acquires one with a lower P/E – is this accretive or 
dilutive? 
 
Trick question.  You can’t tell unless you also know that it’s an all-stock deal.  If it’s an 
all-cash or all-debt deal, the P/E multiples of the buyer and seller don’t matter because 
no stock is being issued.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
63 
 
 
 
 
Sure, generally getting more earnings for less is good and is more likely to be accretive 
but there’s no hard-and-fast rule unless it’s an all-stock deal. 
 
7. What is the rule of thumb for assessing whether an M&A deal will be accretive or 
dilutive? 
 
In an all-stock deal, if the buyer has a higher P/E than the seller, it will be accretive; if the 
buyer has a lower P/E, it will be dilutive. 
 
On an intuitive level if you’re paying more for earnings than what the market values 
your own earnings at, you can guess that it will be dilutive; and likewise, if you’re 
paying less for earnings than what the market values your own earnings at, you can 
guess that it would be accretive. 
 
8. What are the complete effects of an acquisition? 
 
1. Foregone Interest on Cash – The buyer loses the Interest it would have otherwise 
earned if it uses cash for the acquisition.
earned if it uses cash for the acquisition. 
2. Additional Interest on Debt – The buyer pays additional Interest Expense if it 
uses debt. 
3. Additional Shares Outstanding – If the buyer pays with stock, it must issue 
additional shares. 
4. Combined Financial Statements – After the acquisition, the seller’s financials are 
added to the buyer’s. 
5. Creation of Goodwill & Other Intangibles  – These Balance Sheet items that 
represent a “premium” paid to a company’s “fair value” also get created. 
 
Note: There’s actually more than this (see the advanced questions), but this is usually 
sufficient to mention in interviews. 
 
9. If a company were capable of paying 100% in cash for another company, why 
would it choose NOT to do so? 
 
It might be saving its cash for something else or it might be concerned about running 
low if business takes a turn for the worst; its stock may also be trading at an all-time 
high and it might be eager to use that instead (in finance terms this would be “more
high and it might be eager to use that instead (in finance terms this would be “more 
expensive” but a lot of executives value having a safety cushion in the form of a large 
cash balance).
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
64 
 
 
 
 
10. Why would a strategic acquirer typically be willing to pay more for a company 
than a private equity firm would? 
 
Because the strategic acquirer can realize revenue and cost synergies that the private 
equity firm cannot unless it combines the company with a complementary portfolio 
company. Those synergies boost the effective valuation for the target company. 
 
11. Why do Goodwill & Other Intangibles get created in an acquisition? 
 
These represent the value over the “fair market value” of the seller that the buyer has 
paid.  You calculate the number by subtracting the book value of a company from its 
equity purchase price. 
 
More specifically, Goodwill and Other Intangibles represent things like the value of 
customer relationships, brand names and intellectual property – valuable, but not true 
financial Assets that show up on the Balance Sheet.
financial Assets that show up on the Balance Sheet. 
 
12. What is the difference between Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets? 
 
Goodwill typically stays the same over many years and is not amortized.  It changes 
only if there’s goodwill impairment (or another acquisition). 
 
Other Intangible Assets, by contrast, are amortized over several years and affect the 
Income Statement by hitting the Pre-Tax Income line. 
 
There’s also a difference in terms of what they each represent, but bankers rarely go into 
that level of detail – accountants and valuation specialists worry about assigning each 
one to specific items. 
 
13. Is there anything else “intangible” besides Goodwill & Other Intangibles that 
could also impact the combined company? 
 
Yes.  You could also have a Purchased In-Process R&D Write-off and a Deferred 
Revenue Write-off.   
 
The first refers to any Research & Development projects that were purchased in the
The first refers to any Research & Development projects that were purchased in the 
acquisition but which have not been completed yet.  The logic is that unfinished R&D
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
65 
 
 
 
projects require significant resources to complete, and as such, the “expense” must be 
recognized as part of the acquisition. 
 
The second refers to cases where the seller has collected cash for a service but not yet 
recorded it as revenue, and the buyer must write-down the value of the Deferred 
Revenue to avoid “double-counting” revenue. 
 
14. What are synergies, and can you provide a few examples? 
 
Synergies refer to cases where 2 + 2 = 5 (or 6, or 7…) in an acquisition.  Basically, the 
buyer gets more value than out of an acquisition than what the financials would 
predict. 
 
There are 2 types: revenue synergies and cost (or expense) synergies. 
 
• Revenue Synergies: The combined company can cross-sell products to new 
customers or up-sell new products to existing customers.  It might also be able to 
expand into new geographies as a result of the deal.
expand into new geographies as a result of the deal. 
• Cost Synergies: The combined company can consolidate buildings and 
administrative staff and can lay off redundant employees.  It might also be able to 
shut down redundant stores or locations. 
 
15. How are synergies used in merger models? 
 
Revenue Synergies: Normally you add these to the Revenue figure for the combined 
company and then assume a certain margin on the Revenue – this additional Revenue 
then flows through the rest of the combined Income Statement. 
 
Cost Synergies: Normally you reduce the combined COGS or Operating Expenses by 
this amount, which in turn boosts the combined Pre-Tax Income and thus Net Income, 
raising the EPS and making the deal more accretive. 
 
16. Are revenue or cost synergies more important? 
 
No one in M&A takes revenue synergies seriously because they’re so hard to predict.  
Cost synergies are taken a bit more seriously because it’s more straightforward to see
Cost synergies are taken a bit more seriously because it’s more straightforward to see 
how buildings and locations might be consolidated and how many redundant 
employees might be eliminated.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
66 
 
 
 
That said, the chances of any synergies actually being realized are almost 0 so few take 
them seriously at all. 
 
17. All else being equal, which method would a company prefer to use when acquiring 
another company – cash, stock, or debt? 
 
Assuming the buyer had unlimited resources, it would always prefer to use cash when 
buying another company.  Why? 
 
• Cash is “cheaper” than debt because interest rates on cash are usually under 5% 
whereas debt interest rates are almost always higher than that.  Thus, foregone 
interest on cash is almost always less than additional interest paid on debt for the 
same amount of cash/debt. 
• Cash is also less “risky” than debt because there’s no chance the buyer might fail to 
raise sufficient funds from investors. 
• It’s hard to compare the “cost” directly to stock, but in general stock is the most 
“expensive” way to finance a transaction – remember how the Cost of Equity is
“expensive” way to finance a transaction – remember how the Cost of Equity is 
almost always higher than the Cost of Debt?  That same principle applies here. 
• Cash is also less risky than stock because the buyer’s share price could change 
dramatically once the acquisition is announced. 
 
18. How much debt could a company issue in a merger or acquisition? 
 
Generally you would look at Comparable Companies/ Precedent Transactions to 
determine this.  You would use the combined company’s LTM (Last Twelve Months) 
EBITDA figure, find the median Debt/EBITDA ratio of whatever companies you’re 
looking at, and apply that to your own EBITDA figure to get a rough idea of how much 
debt you could raise. 
 
You would also look at “Debt Comps” for companies in the same industry and see what 
types of debt and how many tranches they have used. 
 
19. How do you determine the Purchase Price for the target company in an acquisition? 
 
You use the same Valuation methodologies we already discussed.  If the seller is a
You use the same Valuation methodologies we already discussed.  If the seller is a 
public company, you would pay more attention to the premium paid over the current 
share price to make sure it’s “sufficient” (generally in the 15-30% range) to win 
shareholder approval.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
67 
 
 
 
For private sellers, more weight is placed on the traditional methodologies. 
 
20. Let’s say a company overpays for another company – what typically happens 
afterwards and can you give any recent examples? 
 
There would be an incredibly high amount of Goodwill & Other Intangibles created if 
the price is far above the fair market value of the company.  Depending on how the 
acquisition goes, there might be a large goodwill impairment charge later on if the 
company decides it overpaid. 
 
A recent example is the eBay / Skype deal, in which eBay paid a huge premium and 
extremely high multiple for Skype.  It created excess Goodwill & Other Intangibles, and 
eBay later ended up writing down much of the value and taking a large quarterly loss as 
a result. 
 
21. A buyer pays $100 million for the seller in an all-stock deal, but a day later the 
market decides it’s only worth $50 million.  What happens?
market decides it’s only worth $50 million.  What happens? 
 
The buyer’s share price would fall by whatever per-share dollar amount corresponds to 
the $50 million loss in value. Note that it would not necessarily be cut in half. 
 
Depending on how the deal was structured, the seller would effectively only be 
receiving half of what it had originally negotiated. 
 
This illustrates one of the major risks of all-stock deals: sudden changes in share price 
could dramatically impact valuation. 
 
22. Why do most mergers and acquisitions fail? 
 
Like so many things, M&A is “easier said than done.”  In practice it’s very difficult to 
acquire and integrate a different company, actually realize synergies and also turn the 
acquired company into a profitable division. 
 
Many deals are also done for the wrong reasons, such as CEO ego or pressure from 
shareholders.  Any deal done without both parties’ best interests in mind is likely to fail. 
 
23. What role does a merger model play in deal negotiations?
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
68 
 
 
 
The model is used as a sanity check and is used to test various assumptions.  A company 
would never decide to do a deal based on the output of a model. 
 
It might say, “Ok, the model tells us this deal could work and be moderately accretive – 
it’s worth exploring more.” 
 
It would never say, “Aha!  This model predicts 21% accretion – we should definitely 
acquire them now!” 
 
Emotions, ego and personalities play a far bigger role in M&A (and any type of 
negotiation) than numbers do. 
 
24. What types of sensitivities would you look at in a merger model? What variables 
would you look at? 
 
The most common variables to look at are Purchase Price, % Stock/Cash/Debt, Revenue 
Synergies, and Expense Synergies. Sometimes you also look at different operating 
sensitivities, like Revenue Growth or EBITDA Margin, but it’s more common to build 
these into your model as different scenarios instead.
these into your model as different scenarios instead. 
 
You might look at sensitivity tables showing the EPS accretion/dilution at different 
ranges for the Purchase Price vs. Cost Synergies, Purchase Price vs. Revenue Synergies, 
or Purchase Price vs. % Cash (and so on).
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
69 
 
 
 
Merger Model Questions & Answers – Advanced 
 
These more advanced questions cover topics like the accounting treatment of M&A 
deals, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and different purchase methods like a stock 
purchase, asset purchase, and Section 338(h)(10) election. 
 
You’re unlikely to get these in entry-level interviews, but you never know… 
 
1. What’s the difference between Purchase Accounting and Pooling Accounting in an 
M&A deal? 
 
In purchase accounting the seller’s shareholders’ equity number is wiped out and the 
premium paid over that value is recorded as Goodwill on the combined balance sheet 
post-acquisition. In pooling accounting, you simply combine the 2 shareholders’ equity 
numbers rather than worrying about Goodwill and the related items that get created. 
 
There are specific requirements for using pooling accounting, so in 99% of M&A deals 
you will use purchase accounting.
you will use purchase accounting. 
 
2. Walk me through a concrete example of how to calculate revenue synergies. 
 
“Let’s say that Microsoft is going to acquire Yahoo. Yahoo makes money from search 
advertising online, and they make a certain amount of revenue per search (RPS). Let’s 
say this RPS is $0.10 right now. If Microsoft acquired it, we might assume that they 
could boost this RPS by $0.01 or $0.02 because of their superior monetization. So to 
calculate the additional revenue from this synergy, we would multiply this $0.01 or 
$0.02 by Yahoo’s total # of searches, get the total additional revenue, and then select a 
margin on it to determine how much flows through to the combined company’s 
Operating Income.” 
 
3. Walk me through an example of how to calculate expense synergies. 
 
“Let’s say that Microsoft still wants to acquire Yahoo!. Microsoft has 5,000 SG&A-related 
employees, whereas Yahoo has around 1,000. Microsoft calculates that post-transaction,
employees, whereas Yahoo has around 1,000. Microsoft calculates that post-transaction, 
it will only need about 200 of Yahoo’s SG&A employees, and its existing employees can 
take over the rest of the work. To calculate the Operating Expenses the combined 
company would save, we would multiply these 800 employees Microsoft is going to fire 
post-transaction by their average salary.”
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
70 
 
 
 
 
4. How do you take into account NOLs in an M&A deal? 
 
You apply Section 382 to determine how much of the seller’s NOLs are usable each year. 
 
Allowable NOLs = Equity Purchase Price * Highest of Past 3 Months’ Adjusted Long 
Term Rates 
 
So if our equity purchase price were $1 billion and the highest adjusted long-term rate 
were 5%, then we could use $1 billion * 5% = $50 million of NOLs each year. 
 
If the seller had $250 million in NOLs, then the combined company could use $50 
million of them each year for 5 years to offset its taxable income. 
 
You can look at long-term rates right here: http://pmstax.com/afr/exemptAFR.shtml 
 
5. Why do deferred tax liabilities (DTLs) and deferred tax assets (DTAs) get created in 
M&A deals? 
 
These get created when you write up assets – both tangible and intangible – and when 
you write down assets in a transaction. An asset write-up creates a deferred tax liability,
you write down assets in a transaction. An asset write-up creates a deferred tax liability, 
and an asset write-down creates a deferred tax asset. 
 
You write down and write up assets because their book value – what’s on the balance 
sheet – often differs substantially from their “fair market value.” 
 
An asset write-up creates a deferred tax liability because you’ll have a higher 
depreciation expense on the new asset, which means you save on taxes in the short-term 
– but eventually you’ll have to pay them back, hence the liability. The opposite applies 
for an asset write-down and a deferred tax asset. 
 
6. How do DTLs and DTAs affect the Balance Sheet Adjustment in an M&A deal? 
 
You take them into account with everything else when calculating the amount of 
Goodwill & Other Intangibles to create on your pro-forma balance sheet. The formulas 
are as follows: 
 
Deferred Tax Asset = Asset Write-Down * Tax Rate 
Deferred Tax Liability = Asset Write-Up * Tax Rate
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
71 
 
 
 
 
So let’s say you were buying a company for $1 billion with half-cash and half-debt, and 
you had a $100 million asset write-up and a tax rate of 40%. In addition, the seller has 
total assets of $200 million, total liabilities of $150 million, and shareholders’ equity of 
$50 million. 
 
Here’s what would happen to the combined company’s balance sheet (ignoring 
transaction/financing fees): 
 
• First, you simply add the seller’s Assets and Liabilities (but NOT Shareholders’ 
Equity – it is wiped out) to the buyer’s to get your “initial” balance sheet. Assets 
are up by $200 million and Liabilities are down by $150 million. 
• Then, Cash on the Assets side goes down by $500 million. 
• You have an asset write-up of $100 million, so Assets go up by $100 million. 
• Debt on the Liabilities & Equity side goes up by $500 million. 
• You get a new Deferred Tax Liability of $40 million ($100 million * 40%) on the
• You get a new Deferred Tax Liability of $40 million ($100 million * 40%) on the 
Liabilities & Equity side. 
• Assets are down by $200 million total and Liabilities & Shareholders’ Equity are 
up by $690 million ($500 + $40 + $150). 
• So you need Goodwill & Intangibles of $890 million on the Assets side to make 
both sides balance. 
 
7. Could you get DTLs or DTAs in an asset purchase? 
 
No, because in an asset purchase the book basis of assets always matches the tax basis. 
They get created in a stock purchase because the book values of assets are written up or 
written down, but the tax values are not. 
 
8. How do you account for DTLs in forward projections in a merger model? 
 
You create a book vs. cash tax schedule and figure out what the company owes in taxes 
based on the Pretax Income on its books, and then you determine what it actually pays 
in cash taxes based on its NOLs and newly created amortization and depreciation 
expenses (from any asset write-ups).
expenses (from any asset write-ups). 
 
Anytime the “cash” tax expense exceeds the “book” tax expense you record this as an 
decrease to the Deferred Tax Liability on the Balance Sheet; if the “book” expense is 
higher, then you record that as an increase to the DTL.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
72 
 
 
 
9. Explain the complete formula for how to calculate Goodwill in an M&A deal. 
 
Goodwill = Equity Purchase Price – Seller Book Value + Seller’s Existing Goodwill – 
Asset Write-Ups – Seller’s Existing Deferred Tax Liability + Write-Down of Seller’s 
Existing Deferred Tax Asset + Newly Created Deferred Tax Liability 
 
A couple notes here: 
 
• Seller Book Value is just the Shareholders’ Equity number. 
• You add the Seller’s Existing Goodwill because it gets written down to $0 in an 
M&A deal. 
• You subtract the Asset Write-Ups because these are additions to the Assets side 
of the Balance Sheet – Goodwill is also an asset, so effectively you need less 
Goodwill to “plug the hole.” 
• Normally you assume 100% of the Seller’s existing DTL is written down. 
• The seller’s existing DTA may or may not be written down completely (see the 
next question).
• The seller’s existing DTA may or may not be written down completely (see the 
next question). 
 
10. Explain why we would write down the seller’s existing Deferred Tax Asset in an 
M&A deal. 
 
You write it down to reflect the fact that Deferred Tax Assets include NOLs, and that 
you might use these NOLs post-transaction to offset the combined entity’s taxable 
income. 
 
In an asset or 338(h)(10) purchase you assume that the entire NOL balance goes to $0 in 
the transaction, and then you write down the existing Deferred Tax Asset by this NOL 
write-down. 
 
In a stock purchase the formula is: 
 
DTA Write-Down = Buyer Tax Rate * MAX(0, NOL Balance – Allowed Annual NOL 
Usage * Expiration Period in Years) 
 
This formula is saying, “If we’re going to use up all these NOLs post transaction, let’s 
not write anything down. Otherwise, let’s write down the portion that we cannot 
actually use post-transaction, i.e. whatever our existing NOL balance is minus the
actually use post-transaction, i.e. whatever our existing NOL balance is minus the 
amount we can use per year times the number of years.”
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
73 
 
 
 
11. What’s a Section 338(h)(10) election and why might a company want to use it in an 
M&A deal? 
 
A Section 338(h)(10) election blends the benefits of a stock purchase and an asset 
purchase: 
 
• Legally it is a stock purchase, but accounting-wise it’s treated like an asset 
purchase. 
• The seller is still subject to double-taxation – on its assets that have appreciated 
and on the proceeds from the sale. 
• But the buyer receives a step-up tax basis on the new assets it acquires, and it can 
depreciate/amortize them so it saves on taxes.  
 
Even though the seller still gets taxed twice, buyers will often pay more in a 338(h)(10) 
deal because of the tax-savings potential. It’s particularly helpful for: 
 
• Sellers with high NOL balances (more tax-savings for the buyer because this 
NOL balance will be written down completely – and so more of the excess 
purchase price can be allocated to asset write-ups).
purchase price can be allocated to asset write-ups). 
• If the company has been an S-corporation for over 10 years – in this case it 
doesn’t have to pay a tax on the appreciation of its assets. 
 
The requirements to use 338(h)(10) are complex and bankers don’t deal with this – that is 
the role of lawyers and tax accountants. 
 
12. What is an exchange ratio and when would companies use it in an M&A deal? 
 
An exchange ratio is an alternate way of structuring a 100% stock M&A deal, or any 
M&A deal with a portion of stock involved. 
 
Let’s say you were going to buy a company for $100 million in an all-stock deal. 
Normally you would determine how much stock to issue by dividing the $100 million 
by the buyer’s stock price, and using that to get the new share count. 
 
With an exchange ratio, by contrast, you would tie the number of new shares to the 
buyer’s own shares – so the seller might receive 1.5 shares of the buyer’s shares for each
buyer’s own shares – so the seller might receive 1.5 shares of the buyer’s shares for each 
of its shares, rather than shares worth a specific dollar amount.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
74 
 
 
 
Buyers might prefer to do this if they believe their stock price is going to decline post-
transaction – sellers, on the other hand, would prefer a fixed dollar amount in stock 
unless they believe the buyer’s share price will rise after the transaction. 
 
13. Walk me through the most important terms of a Purchase Agreement in an M&A 
deal. 
 
There are dozens, but here are the most important ones: 
 
• Purchase Price: Stated as a per-share amount for public companies. 
• Form of Consideration: Cash, Stock, Debt… 
• Transaction Structure: Stock, Asset, or 338(h)(10) 
• Treatment of Options: Assumed by the buyer? Cashed out? Ignored? 
• Employee Retention: Do employees have to sign non-solicit or non-compete 
agreements? What about management? 
• Reps & Warranties: What must the buyer and seller claim is true about their 
respective businesses? 
• No-Shop / Go-Shop: Can the seller “shop” this offer around and try to get a
• No-Shop / Go-Shop: Can the seller “shop” this offer around and try to get a 
better deal, or must it stay exclusive to this buyer? 
 
14. What’s an Earnout and why would a buyer offer it to a seller in an M&A deal? 
 
An Earnout is a form of “deferred payment” in an M&A deal – it’s most common with 
private companies and start-ups, and is highly unusual with public sellers. 
 
It is usually contingent on financial performance or other goals – for example, the buyer 
might say, “We’ll give you an additional $10 million in 3 years if you can hit $100 
million in revenue by then.” 
 
Buyers use it to incentivize sellers to continue to perform well and to discourage 
management teams from taking the money and running off to an island in the South 
Pacific once the deal is done. 
 
15. How would an accretion / dilution model be different for a private seller? 
 
The mechanics are the same, but the transaction structure is more likely to be an asset
The mechanics are the same, but the transaction structure is more likely to be an asset 
purchase or 338(h)(10) election; private sellers also don’t have Earnings Per Share so you 
would only project down to Net Income on the seller’s Income Statement.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
75 
 
 
 
Note that accretion / dilution makes no sense if you have a private buyer because private 
companies do not have Earnings Per Share. 
 
16. How would I calculate “break-even synergies” in an M&A deal and what does the 
number mean? 
 
To do this, you would set the EPS accretion / dilution to $0.00 and then back-solve in 
Excel to get the required synergies to make the deal neutral to EPS. 
 
It’s important because you want an idea of whether or not a deal “works” 
mathematically, and a high number for the break-even synergies tells you that you’re 
going to need a lot of cost savings or revenue synergies to make it work. 
 
17. Normally in an accretion / dilution model you care most about combining both 
companies’ Income Statements. But let’s say I want to combine all 3 financial 
statements – how would I do this? 
 
You combine the Income Statements like you normally would (see the previous question
You combine the Income Statements like you normally would (see the previous question 
on this), and then you do the following: 
 
1. Combine the buyer’s and seller’s balance sheets (except for the seller’s 
Shareholders’ Equity number). 
2. Make the necessary Pro-Forma Adjustments (cash, debt, goodwill/intangibles, 
etc.). 
3. Project the combined Balance Sheet using standard assumptions for each item 
(see the Accounting section). 
4. Then project the Cash Flow Statement and link everything together as you 
normally would with any other 3-statement model. 
 
18. How do you handle options, convertible debt, and other dilutive securities in a 
merger model? 
 
The exact treatment depends on the terms of the Purchase Agreement – the buyer might 
assume them or it might allow the seller to “cash them out” assuming that the per-share 
purchase price is above the exercise prices of these dilutive securities. 
 
If you assume they’re exercised, then you calculate dilution to the equity purchase price
If you assume they’re exercised, then you calculate dilution to the equity purchase price 
in the same way you normally would – Treasury Stock Method for options, and assume 
that convertibles convert into normal shares using the conversion price.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
76 
 
 
 
 
19. What are the main 3 transaction structures you could use to acquire another 
company? 
 
Stock Purchase, Asset Purchase, and 338(h)(10) Election. The basic differences: 
 
Stock Purchase: 
 
• Buyer acquires all asset and liabilities of the seller as well as off-balance sheet 
items. 
• The seller is taxed at the capital gains tax rate. 
• The buyer receives no step-up tax basis for the newly acquired assets, and it can’t 
depreciate/amortize them for tax purposes. 
• A Deferred Tax Liability gets created as a result of the above. 
• Most common for public companies and larger private companies. 
 
Asset Purchase: 
 
• Buyer acquires only certain assets and assumes only certain liabilities of the seller 
and gets nothing else. 
• Seller is taxed on the amount its assets have appreciated (what the buyer is 
paying for each one minus its book value) and also pays a capital gains tax on the 
proceeds.
paying for each one minus its book value) and also pays a capital gains tax on the 
proceeds. 
• The buyer receives a step-up tax basis for the newly acquired assets, and it can 
depreciate/amortize them for tax purposes. 
• No Deferred Tax Liability is created as a result of the above. 
• Most common for private companies, divestitures, and distressed public 
companies. 
 
Section 338(h)(10) Election: 
 
• Buyer acquires all asset and liabilities of the seller as well as off-balance sheet 
items. 
• Seller is taxed on the amount its assets have appreciated (what the buyer is 
paying for each one minus its book value) and also pays a capital gains tax on the 
proceeds. 
• The buyer receives a step-up tax basis for the newly acquired assets, and it can 
depreciate/amortize them for tax purposes. 
• No Deferred Tax Liability is created as a result of the above.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
77 
 
 
 
• Most common for private companies, divestitures, and distressed public 
companies. 
• To compensate for the buyer’s favorable tax treatment, the buyer usually agrees 
to pay more than it would in an Asset Purchase. 
 
20. Would a seller prefer a stock purchase or an asset purchase? What about the buyer?  
 
A seller almost always prefers a stock purchase to avoid double taxation and to get rid 
of all its liabilities. The buyer almost always prefers an asset deal so it can be more 
careful about what it acquires and to get the tax benefit from being able to deduct 
depreciation and amortization of asset write-ups for tax purposes. 
 
21. Explain what a contribution analysis is and why we might look at it in a merger 
model. 
 
A contribution analysis compares how much revenue, EBITDA, Pre-Tax Income, cash, 
and possibly other items the buyer and seller are “contributing” to estimate what the
and possibly other items the buyer and seller are “contributing” to estimate what the 
ownership of the combined company should be. 
 
For example, let’s say that the buyer is set to own 50% of the new company and the 
seller is set to own 50%. But the buyer has $100 million of revenue and the seller has $50 
million of revenue – a contribution analysis would tell us that the buyer “should” own 
66% instead because it’s contributing 2/3 of the combined revenue. 
 
It’s most common to look at this with merger of equals scenarios, and less common 
when the buyer is significantly larger than the seller. 
 
22. How do you account for transaction costs, financing fees, and miscellaneous 
expenses in a merger model? 
 
In the “old days” you used to capitalize these expenses and then amortize them; with 
new accounting rules introduced at the end of 2008, you’re supposed to expense 
transaction and miscellaneous fees upfront, but capitalize the financing fees and 
amortize them over the life of the debt.
amortize them over the life of the debt. 
 
Expensed transaction fees come out of Retained Earnings when you adjust the Balance 
Sheet, while capitalized financing fees appear as a new Asset on the Balance Sheet and 
are amortized each year according to the tenor of the debt.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
78 
 
 
 
LBO Model Questions & Answers – Basic 
 
The field is wide open when you get to questions on Leveraged Buyouts and LBO 
models.  You need to know the basics, but it’s also important to understand how 
different variables affect the output and how and why a PE firm would structure a deal 
in a certain way. 
 
You’re more likely to get these types of questions if you’ve already had a banking 
internship or if you’ve worked in a group like Financial Sponsors that works extensively 
with PE firms. 
 
But even if neither of those applies to you, it’s still better to be over-prepared. 
 
1. Walk me through a basic LBO model. 
 
“In an LBO Model, Step 1 is making assumptions about the Purchase Price, Debt/Equity 
ratio, Interest Rate on Debt and other variables; you might also assume something about 
the company’s operations, such as Revenue Growth or Margins, depending on how 
much information you have.
much information you have. 
 
Step 2 is to create a Sources & Uses section, which shows how you finance the 
transaction and what you use the capital for; this also tells you how much Investor 
Equity is required. 
 
Step 3 is to adjust the company’s Balance Sheet for the new Debt and Equity figures, and 
also add in Goodwill & Other Intangibles on the Assets side to make everything balance. 
 
In Step 4, you project out the company’s Income Statement, Balance Sheet and Cash 
Flow Statement, and determine how much debt is paid off each year, based on the 
available Cash Flow and the required Interest Payments.   
 
Finally, in Step 5, you make assumptions about the exit after several years, usually 
assuming an EBITDA Exit Multiple, and calculate the return based on how much equity 
is returned to the firm.” 
 
2. Why would you use leverage when buying a company? 
 
To increase your returns.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
79 
 
 
 
Remember, any debt you use in an LBO is not “your money” – so if you’re paying $5 
billion for a company, it’s easier to earn a high return on $2 billion of your own money 
and $3 billion borrowed from elsewhere vs. $3 billion of your own money and $2 billion 
of borrowed money. 
 
A secondary benefit is that the firm also has more capital available to purchase other 
companies because they’ve used leverage. 
 
3. What variables impact an LBO model the most? 
 
Purchase and exit multiples have the biggest impact on the returns of a model.  After 
that, the amount of leverage (debt) used also has a significant impact, followed by 
operational characteristics such as revenue growth and EBITDA margins. 
 
4. How do you pick purchase multiples and exit multiples in an LBO model? 
 
The same way you do it anywhere else: you look at what comparable companies are
The same way you do it anywhere else: you look at what comparable companies are 
trading at, and what multiples similar LBO transactions have had. As always, you also 
show a range of purchase and exit multiples using sensitivity tables. 
 
Sometimes you set purchase and exit multiples based on a specific IRR target that you’re 
trying to achieve – but this is just for valuation purposes if you’re using an LBO model 
to value the company. 
 
5. What is an “ideal” candidate for an LBO? 
 
“Ideal” candidates have stable and predictable cash flows, low-risk businesses, not 
much need for ongoing investments such as Capital Expenditures, as well as an 
opportunity for expense reductions to boost their margins.  A strong management team 
also helps, as does a base of assets to use as collateral for debt. 
 
The most important part is stable cash flow. 
 
6. How do you use an LBO model to value a company, and why do we sometimes say 
that it sets the “floor valuation” for the company?
that it sets the “floor valuation” for the company? 
 
You use it to value a company by setting a targeted IRR (for example, 25%) and then 
back-solving in Excel to determine what purchase price the PE firm could pay to achieve 
that IRR.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
80 
 
 
 
 
This is sometimes called a “floor valuation” because PE firms almost always pay less for 
a company than strategic acquirers would. 
 
7. Give an example of a “real-life” LBO. 
 
The most common example is taking out a mortgage when you buy a house. Here’s how 
the analogy works: 
 
• Down Payment: Investor Equity in an LBO 
• Mortgage: Debt in an LBO 
• Mortgage Interest Payments: Debt Interest in an LBO 
• Mortgage Repayments: Debt Principal Repayments in an LBO 
• Selling the House: Selling the Company / Taking It Public in an LBO 
 
8. Can you explain how the Balance Sheet is adjusted in an LBO model? 
 
First, the Liabilities & Equities side is adjusted – the new debt is added on, and the 
Shareholders’ Equity is “wiped out” and replaced by however much equity the private 
equity firm is contributing. 
 
On the Assets side, Cash is adjusted for any cash used to finance the transaction, and
On the Assets side, Cash is adjusted for any cash used to finance the transaction, and 
then Goodwill & Other Intangibles are used as a “plug” to make the Balance Sheet 
balance. 
 
Depending on the transaction, there could be other effects as well – such as capitalized 
financing fees added to the Assets side. 
 
9. Why are Goodwill & Other Intangibles created in an LBO? 
 
Remember, these both represent the premium paid to the “fair market value” of the 
company.  In an LBO, they act as a “plug” and ensure that the changes to the Liabilities 
& Equity side are balanced by changes to the Assets side. 
 
10. We saw that a strategic acquirer will usually prefer to pay for another company in 
cash – if that’s the case, why would a PE firm want to use debt in an LBO? 
 
It’s a different scenario because:
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
81 
 
 
 
1. The PE firm does not intend to hold the company for the long-term – it usually 
sells it after a few years, so it is less concerned with the “expense” of cash vs. 
debt and more concerned about using leverage to boost its returns by reducing 
the amount of capital it has to contribute upfront. 
2. In an LBO, the debt is “owned” by the company, so they assume much of the risk.  
Whereas in a strategic acquisition, the buyer “owns” the debt so it is more risky 
for them. 
 
11. Do you need to project all 3 statements in an LBO model?  Are there any shortcuts? 
 
Yes, there are shortcuts and you don’t necessarily need to project all 3 statements. 
 
For example, you do not need to create a full Balance Sheet – bankers sometimes skip 
this if they are in a rush.  You do need some form of Income Statement, something to 
track how the Debt balances change and some type of Cash Flow Statement to show
track how the Debt balances change and some type of Cash Flow Statement to show 
how much cash is available to repay debt. 
 
But a full-blown Balance Sheet is not strictly required, because you can just make 
assumptions on the Net Change in Working Capital rather than looking at each item 
individually. 
 
12. How would you determine how much debt can be raised in an LBO and how 
many tranches there would be? 
 
Usually you would look at Comparable LBOs and see the terms of the debt and how 
many tranches each of them used.  You would look at companies in a similar size range 
and industry and use those criteria to determine the debt your company can raise. 
 
13. Let’s say we’re analyzing how much debt a company can take on, and what the 
terms of the debt should be. What are reasonable leverage and coverage ratios? 
 
This is completely dependent on the company, the industry, and the leverage and 
coverage ratios for comparable LBO transactions.
coverage ratios for comparable LBO transactions. 
 
To figure out the numbers, you would look at “debt comps” showing the types, tranches, 
and terms of debt that similarly sized companies in the industry have used recently. 
 
There are some general rules: for example, you would never lever a company at 50x 
EBITDA, and even during the bubble leverage rarely exceeded 5-10x EBITDA.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
82 
 
 
 
 
14. What is the difference between bank debt and high-yield debt? 
 
This is a simplification, but broadly speaking there are 2 “types” of debt: “bank debt” 
and “high-yield debt.”  There are many differences, but here are a few of the most 
important ones: 
 
• High-yield debt tends to have higher interest rates than bank debt (hence the name 
“high-yield”). 
• High-yield debt interest rates are usually fixed, whereas bank debt interest rates are 
“floating” – they change based on LIBOR or the Fed interest rate. 
• High-yield debt has incurrence covenants while bank debt has maintenance 
covenants.  The main difference is that incurrence covenants prevent you from doing 
something (such as selling an asset, buying a factory, etc.) while maintenance 
covenants require you to maintain a minimum financial performance (for example, 
the Debt/EBITDA ratio must be below 5x at all times).
the Debt/EBITDA ratio must be below 5x at all times). 
• Bank debt is usually amortized – the principal must be paid off over time – whereas 
with high-yield debt, the entire principal is due at the end (bullet maturity). 
 
Usually in a sizable Leveraged Buyout, the PE firm uses both types of debt. 
 
Again, there are many different types of debt – this is a simplification, but it’s enough 
for entry-level interviews. 
 
15. Why might you use bank debt rather than high-yield debt in an LBO? 
 
If the PE firm or the company is concerned about meeting interest payments and wants 
a lower-cost option, they might use bank debt; they might also use bank debt if they are 
planning on major expansion or Capital Expenditures and don’t want to be restricted by 
incurrence covenants. 
 
16. Why would a PE firm prefer high-yield debt instead? 
 
If the PE firm intends to refinance the company at some point or they don’t believe their
If the PE firm intends to refinance the company at some point or they don’t believe their 
returns are too sensitive to interest payments, they might use high-yield debt.  They 
might also use the high-yield option if they don’t have plans for major expansion or 
selling off the company’s assets.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
83 
 
 
 
17. Why would a private equity firm buy a company in a “risky” industry, such as 
technology? 
 
Although technology is more “risky” than other markets, remember that there are 
mature, cash flow-stable companies in almost every industry.  There are some PE firms 
that specialize in very specific goals, such as: 
 
• Industry consolidation – buying competitors in a similar market and combining 
them to increase efficiency and win more customers. 
• Turnarounds – taking struggling companies and making them function properly 
again. 
• Divestitures – selling off divisions of a company or taking a division and turning it 
into a strong stand-alone entity. 
 
So even if a company isn’t doing well or seems risky, the firm might buy it if it falls into 
one of these categories. 
 
18. How could a private equity firm boost its return in an LBO? 
 
1. Lower the Purchase Price in the model. 
2. Raise the Exit Multiple / Exit Price.
1. Lower the Purchase Price in the model. 
2. Raise the Exit Multiple / Exit Price. 
3. Increase the Leverage (debt) used. 
4. Increase the company’s growth rate (organically or via acquisitions). 
5. Increase margins by reducing expenses (cutting employees, consolidating 
buildings, etc.). 
 
Note that these are all “theoretical” and refer to the model rather than reality – in 
practice it’s hard to actually implement these. 
 
19. What is meant by the “tax shield” in an LBO? 
 
This means that the interest a firm pays on debt is tax-deductible – so they save money 
on taxes and therefore increase their cash flow as a result of having debt from the LBO. 
 
Note, however, that their cash flow is still lower than it would be without the debt – 
saving on taxes helps, but the added interest expenses still reduces Net Income over 
what it would be for a debt-free company.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
84 
 
 
 
20. What is a dividend recapitalization (“dividend recap”)? 
 
In a dividend recap, the company takes on new debt solely to pay a special dividend out 
to the PE firm that bought it.   
 
It would be like if you made your friend take out a personal loan just so he/she could 
pay you a lump sum of cash with the loan proceeds. 
 
As you might guess, dividend recaps have developed a bad reputation, though they’re 
still commonly used. 
 
21. Why would a PE firm choose to do a dividend recap of one of its portfolio 
companies? 
 
Primarily to boost returns.  Remember, all else being equal, more leverage means a 
higher return to the firm. 
 
With a dividend recap, the PE firm is “recovering” some of its equity investment in the 
company – and as we saw earlier, the lower the equity investment, the better, since it’s 
easier to earn a higher return on a smaller amount of capital.
easier to earn a higher return on a smaller amount of capital. 
 
22. How would a dividend recap impact the 3 financial statements in an LBO? 
 
No changes to the Income Statement.  On the Balance Sheet, Debt would go up and 
Shareholders’ Equity would go down and they would cancel each other out so that 
everything remained in balance. 
 
On the Cash Flow Statement, there would be no changes to Cash Flow from Operations 
or Investing, but under Financing the additional Debt raised would cancel out the Cash 
paid out to the investors, so Net Change in Cash would not change.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
85 
 
 
 
LBO Model Questions & Answers – Advanced 
 
Some of these questions are very obscure. This section is most applicable if you’re 
interviewing for PE jobs, or if you have a lot of LBO experience on your resume and you 
really need to know the in’s and out’s of LBO models. 
 
Note that there is a lot of overlap between Merger Model and LBO Model questions, 
because many of the elements in a Merger Model like Purchase Price Allocation, 
Deferred Tax Assets / Liabilities, and the creation of Goodwill work the same way in 
both models. 
 
Rather than repeating everything here, I would just point you to the Advanced Merger 
Model section if you want to review those concepts. 
 
1. Tell me about all the different kinds of debt you could use in an LBO and the 
differences between everything. 
 
Here’s a handy chart to explain all of this. Note that this chart does not cover every
Here’s a handy chart to explain all of this. Note that this chart does not cover every 
single feature or every single type of debt in the universe – just the most important ones, 
and what you’re likely to be asked about in finance interviews: 
 
Debt Type Revolver Term Loan A Term Loan B Senior 
Notes 
Subordinated 
Notes 
Mezzanine 
Interest Rate: Lowest Low Higher Higher Higher Highest 
Floating / 
Fixed? 
Floating Fixed 
Cash Pay? Yes Cash / PIK 
Tenor: 3-5 years 4-6 years 4-8 years 7-10 years 8-10 years 8-12 years 
Amortization: None Straight Line Minimal Bullet 
Prepayment? Yes No 
Investors: Conservative Banks HFs, Merchant Banks, Mezzanine Funds 
Seniority Senior Secured Senior 
Unsecured 
Senior 
Subordinated 
Equity 
Secured? Yes Sometimes No 
Call 
Protection? 
No Sometimes Yes 
Covenants: Maintenance Incurrence
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
86 
 
 
 
 
“Tenor” is just the fancy word for “How many years will this loan be outstanding?” 
 
Each type of debt is arranged in order of rising interest rates – so a revolver has the 
lowest interest rate, Term Loan A is slightly higher, B is slightly higher, Senior Notes are 
higher than Term Loan B, and so on. 
 
 “Seniority” refers to the order of claims on a company’s assets in a bankruptcy – the 
Senior Secured holders are first in line, followed by Senior Unsecured, Senior 
Subordinated, and then Equity Investors. 
 
“Floating” or “Fixed” Interest Rates: A “floating” interest rate is tied to LIBOR. For 
example, L + 100 means that the interest rate of the loan is whatever LIBOR is at 
currently, plus 100 basis points (1.0%). A fixed interest rate, on the other hand, would be 
11%. It doesn’t “float” with LIBOR or any other rate. 
 
Amortization: “straight line” means the company pays off the principal in equal
Amortization: “straight line” means the company pays off the principal in equal 
installments each year, while “bullet” means that the entire principal is due at the end of 
the loan’s lifecycle. “Minimal” just means a low percentage of the principal each year, 
usually in the 1-5% range. 
 
Call Protection: Is the company prohibited from “calling back” – paying off or 
redeeming – the security for a certain period?  This is beneficial for investors because 
they are guaranteed a certain number of interest payments. 
 
2. How would an asset write-up or write-down affect an LBO model? / Walk me 
through how you adjust the Balance Sheet in an LBO model. 
 
All of this is very similar to what you would see in a merger model – you calculate 
Goodwill, Other Intangibles, and the rest of the write-ups in the same way, and then the 
Balance Sheet adjustments (e.g. subtracting cash, adding in capitalized financing fees, 
writing up assets, wiping out goodwill, adjusting the deferred tax assets / liabilities,
writing up assets, wiping out goodwill, adjusting the deferred tax assets / liabilities, 
adding in new debt, etc.) are almost the same. 
 
The key differences: 
 
• In an LBO model you assume that the existing Shareholders’ Equity is wiped out 
and replaced by the equity the private equity firm contributes to buy the 
company; you may also add in Preferred Stock, Management Rollover, or
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
87 
 
 
 
Rollover from Option Holders to this number as well depending on what you’re 
assuming for transaction financing. 
• In an LBO model you’ll usually be adding a lot more tranches of debt vs. what 
you would see in a merger model. 
• In an LBO model you’re not combining two companies’ Balance Sheets. 
 
3. Normally we care about the IRR for the equity investors in an LBO – the PE firm 
that buys the company – but how do we calculate the IRR for the debt investors? 
 
For the debt investors, you need to calculate the interest and principal payments they 
receive from the company each year. 
 
Then you simply use the IRR function in Excel and start with the negative amount of the 
original debt for “Year 0,” assume that the interest and principal payments each year are 
your “cash flows” and then assume that the remaining debt balance in the final year is 
your “exit value.”
your “exit value.” 
 
Most of the time, returns for debt investors will be lower than returns for the equity 
investors – but if the deal goes poorly or the PE firm can’t sell the company for a good 
price, the reverse could easily be true. 
 
4. Why might a private equity firm allot some of a company’s new equity in an LBO to 
a management option pool, and how would this affect the model? 
 
This is done for the same reason you have an Earnout in an M&A deal: the PE firm 
wants to incentivize the management team and keep everyone on-board until they exit 
the investment. 
 
The difference is that there’s no technical limit on how much management might receive 
from such an option pool: if they hit it out of the park, maybe they’ll all become 
millionaires. 
 
In your LBO model, you would need to calculate a per-share purchase price when the 
PE firm exits the investment, and then calculate how much of the proceeds go to the 
management team based on the Treasury Stock Method.
management team based on the Treasury Stock Method. 
 
An option pool by itself would reduce the PE firm’s return, but this is offset by the fact 
that the company should perform better with this incentive in place.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
88 
 
 
 
5. Why you would you use PIK (Payment In Kind) debt rather than other types of 
debt, and how does it affect the debt schedules and the other statements? 
 
Unlike “normal” debt, a PIK loan does not require the borrower to make cash interest 
payments – instead, the interest just accrues to the loan principal, which keeps going up 
over time. A PIK “toggle” allows the company to choose whether to pay the interest in 
cash or have it accrue to the principal (these have disappeared since the credit crunch). 
 
PIK is more risky than other forms of debt and carries with it a higher interest rate than 
traditional bank debt or high yield debt. 
 
Adding it to the debt schedules is similar to adding high-yield debt with a bullet 
maturity – except instead of assuming cash interest payments, you assume that the 
interest accrues to the principal instead.
interest accrues to the principal instead. 
 
You should then include this interest on the Income Statement, but you need to add back 
any PIK interest on the Cash Flow Statement because it’s a non-cash expense. 
 
6. What are some examples of incurrence covenants? Maintenance covenants? 
 
Incurrence Covenants: 
 
• Company cannot take on more than $2 billion of total debt. 
• Proceeds from any asset sales must be earmarked to repay debt. 
• Company cannot make acquisitions of over $200 million in size. 
• Company cannot spend more than $100 million on CapEx each year. 
 
Maintenance Covenants: 
 
• Total Debt / EBITDA cannot exceed 3.0 x 
• Senior Debt / EBITDA cannot exceed 2.0 x 
• (Total Cash Payable Debt + Capitalized Leases) / EBITDAR cannot exceed 4.0 x 
• EBITDA / Interest Expense cannot fall below 5.0 x 
• EBITDA / Cash Interest Expense cannot fall below 3.0 x 
• (EBITDA – CapEx) / Interest Expense cannot fall below 2.0 x
• (EBITDA – CapEx) / Interest Expense cannot fall below 2.0 x 
 
7. Just like a normal M&A deal, you can structure an LBO either as a stock purchase or 
as an asset purchase. Can you also use Section 338(h)(10) election?
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
89 
 
 
 
In most cases, no – because one of the requirements for Section 338(h)(10) is that the 
buyer must be a C corporation. Most private equity firms are organized as LLCs or 
Limited Partnerships, and when they acquire companies in an LBO, they create an LLC 
shell company that “acquires” the company on paper. 
 
8. Walk me through how you calculate optional repayments on debt in an LBO model. 
 
First, note that you only look at optional repayments for Revolvers and Term Loans – 
high-yield debt doesn’t have a prepayment option, so effectively it’s always $0. 
 
First, you check how much cash flow you have available based on your Beginning Cash 
Balance, Minimum Cash Balance, Cash Flow Available for Debt Repayment from the 
Cash Flow Statement, and how much you use to make Mandatory Debt Repayments. 
 
Then, if you’ve used your Revolver at all you pay off the maximum amount that you can 
with the cash flow you have available.
with the cash flow you have available. 
 
Next, for Term Loan A you assume that you pay off the maximum you can, taking into 
account that you’ve lost any cash flow you used to pay down the Revolver. You also 
need to take into account that you might have paid off some of Term Loan A’s principal 
as part of the Mandatory Repayments. 
 
Finally, you do the same thing for Term Loan B, subtracting from the “cash flow 
available for debt repayment” what you’ve already used up on the Revolver and Term 
Loan A. And just like Term Loan A, you need to take into account any Mandatory 
Repayments you’ve made so that you don’t pay off more than the entire Term Loan B 
balance. 
 
The formulas here get very messy and depend on how your model is set up, but this is 
the basic idea for optional debt repayments. 
 
9. Explain how a Revolver is used in an LBO model. 
 
You use a Revolver when the cash required for your Mandatory Debt Repayments 
exceeds the cash flow you have available to repay them.
exceeds the cash flow you have available to repay them. 
 
The formula is: Revolver Borrowing = MAX(0, Total Mandatory Debt Repayment – Cash 
Flow Available to Repay Debt).
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
90 
 
 
 
The Revolver starts off “undrawn,” meaning that you don’t actually borrow money and 
don’t accrue a balance unless you need it – similar to how credit cards work. 
 
You add any required Revolver Borrowing to your running total for cash flow available 
for debt repayment before you calculate Mandatory and Optional Debt Repayments. 
 
Within the debt repayments themselves, you assume that any Revolver Borrowing from 
previous years is paid off first with excess cash flow before you pay off any Term Loans. 
 
10. How would you adjust the Income Statement in an LBO model? 
 
The most common adjustments: 
 
• Cost Savings – Often you assume the PE firm cuts costs by laying off employees, 
which could affect COGS, Operating Expenses, or both. 
• New Depreciation Expense – This comes from any PP&E write-ups in the 
transaction. 
• New Amortization Expense – This includes both the amortization from written-
transaction. 
• New Amortization Expense – This includes both the amortization from written-
up intangibles and from capitalized financing fees. 
• Interest Expense on LBO Debt – You need to include both cash and PIK interest 
here. 
• Sponsor Management Fees – Sometimes PE firms charge a “management fee” to 
a company to account for the time and effort they spend managing it. 
• Common Stock Dividend – Although private companies don’t pay dividends to 
shareholders, they could pay out a dividend recap to the PE investors. 
• Preferred Stock Dividend – If Preferred Stock is used as a form of financing in 
the transaction, you need to account for Preferred Stock Dividends on the Income 
Statement. 
 
Cost Savings and new Depreciation / Amortization hit the Operating Income line; 
Interest Expense and Sponsor Management Fees hit Pre-Tax Income; and you need to 
subtract the dividend items from your Net Income number. 
 
11. In an LBO model, is it possible for debt investors to get a higher return than the PE
11. In an LBO model, is it possible for debt investors to get a higher return than the PE 
firm? What does it tell us about the company we’re modeling? 
 
Yes, and it happens more commonly than you’d think. Remember, high-yield debt 
investors often get interest rates of 10-15% or more – which effectively guarantees an 
IRR in that range for them.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
91 
 
 
 
 
So no matter what happens to the company or the market, that debt gets repaid and the 
debt investors get the interest payments. 
 
But let’s say that the median EBITDA multiples contract, or that the company fails to 
grow or actually shrinks – in these cases the PE firm could easily get an IRR below what 
the debt investors get. 
 
12. Most of the time, increased leverage means an increased IRR. Explain how 
increasing the leverage could reduce the IRR. 
 
This scenario is admittedly rare, but it could happen if the increase leverage increases 
interest payments or debt repayments to very high levels, preventing the company from 
using its cash flow for other purposes. 
 
Sometimes in LBO models, increasing the leverage increases the IRR up to a certain 
point – but then after that the IRR starts falling as the interest payments or principal 
repayments become “too big.”
repayments become “too big.” 
 
For this scenario to happen you would need a “perfect storm” of: 
 
1. Relative lack of cash flow / EBITDA growth. 
2. High interest payments and principal repayments relative to cash flow. 
3. Relatively high purchase premium or purchase multiple to make it more difficult 
to get a high IRR in the first place.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
92 
 
 
 
Brain Teaser Questions & Answers 
 
Brain teasers are silly to ask in interviews, but that doesn’t mean you won’t get them. 
 
The questions below just scrape the surface of what’s out there, but they are among the 
more common types seen in interviews. 
 
The key with brain teasers is to keep your cool and attempt to reason your way through 
any question, even if you haven’t a clue as to the answer.  This is one case where saying 
nothing or stating you don’t know hurts you. 
 
1. A car drives 60 miles at an average speed of 30 miles per hour.  How fast should the 
driver drive to travel the same 60 miles in the same time period, but at an average of 
60 miles per hour? 
 
This is not possible.  To travel 60 miles at an average speed of 30 miles per hour, 2 hours 
are required; to travel at an average of 60 miles per hour in those same 2 hours, you’d 
need to go 120 miles rather than 60 miles.
need to go 120 miles rather than 60 miles. 
 
The most common mistake is to respond with 90 miles per hour or 120 miles per hour – 
if you get a question like this in an interview, be sure to ask clarifying questions that 
could point you in the right direction. 
 
In this case, for example, we might have reframed the question and asked if it was really, 
“How do you travel 60 miles in 2 hours at an average speed of 60 miles per hour?”  If he 
said yes, we’d instantly know it was not possible. 
 
2. What is the angle formed by the hands of the clock when it is 1:45? 
 
142.5 degrees.  If we just think of the clock hour hand at 1 and the minute hand at the 45 
position (near 9 o’clock), that is 120 degrees since they are 4 “numbers” apart, and each 
number on the clock represents 30 degrees (360/12). 
 
However, recall that the hour hand has already moved by the time the minute hand has 
reached the 45 position – it is now closer to 2 o’clock.  45 represent ¾ of an hour, so the
reached the 45 position – it is now closer to 2 o’clock.  45 represent ¾ of an hour, so the 
hour hand will have moved ¾ of 30 degrees, or 22.5 degrees.  If we add them together, 
we see that 120 + 22.5 = 142.5
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
93 
 
 
 
The most common mistake is to state the original number we arrived at – 120 degrees – 
rather than finishing the calculation.  Sometimes with this type of question the 
interviewer will lead you in the right direction if you have a basic idea of how to solve it.  
 
3. You have stacks of quarters, dimes, nickels and pennies (these represent $0.25, $0.10, 
$0.05 and $0.01, respectively, in the US monetary system for anyone international).  
There are an unlimited number of coins in each stack. 
 
You can take coins from a stack in any amount and in any order and place them in 
your hand.  What is the greatest dollar value in coins you can have in your hands 
without being able to make change for a dollar? 
 
$1.19.  There are a few ways to think about this, but the easiest is to start with the largest 
coin – quarters – first and then work your way down.
coin – quarters – first and then work your way down. 
 
4 quarters equals $1.00, so we clearly can’t do that – but 3 quarters are ok because that’s 
only $0.75. 
 
Next, we have dimes.  Recall that we can use any combination of coins to make change 
for a dollar – if we were to have 5 dimes and put them together with the 2 quarters, that 
would make $1.00.  So we’ll use 4 instead – there’s no combination there that would 
result in $1.00 when added to the quarters. 
 
Nickels are next.  Here, we can’t have any – because even a single nickel, $0.05, would 
add up to $1.00 when added to the 3 quarters we have ($0.75) and the 2 dimes ($0.20). 
 
Finally, for pennies we know that we can’t have 5 pennies ($0.05) because we could then 
get to $1.00 using the same logic as we saw for the nickels.  So 4 is the maximum here. 
 
With that, we see that 3 Quarters + 4 Dimes + 4 Pennies = $1.19 
 
The most common mistake is not realizing you can use any combination of your existing
The most common mistake is not realizing you can use any combination of your existing 
coins to add up to a dollar – most people understand that you can’t have 4 quarters, but 
sometimes interviewees forget that 2 quarters + 5 dimes = $1.00 as well. 
 
This is another case where asking clarifying questions – such as whether 2 quarters + 5 
dimes would count as $1.00 – really helps.
http://breakingintowallstreet.com 
http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com 
 
94 
 
 
 
4. You have a hose along with a 3 liter bucket and a 5 liter bucket.  How do you get 
exactly 4 liters of water?  
 
First, fill the 3 liter bucket and pour it into the 5 liter one.  Then, re-fill the 3 liter bucket 
and pour it into the 5 liter bucket until it’s full – that leaves 1 liter in the 3 liter bucket 
and 5 in the 5 liter bucket. 
 
Then, pour out the 5 liter bucket so nothing is left and pour the 1 liter of water from the 
3 liter bucket into the 5 liter bucket.  Finally, fill the 3 liter bucket completely and pour it 
into the 5 liter bucket – since it already has 1 liter of water, you’ll get exactly 4 liters. 
 
For this type of question, it’s easiest to use deductive reasoning to get the answer.  You 
know you can’t possibly get 4 liters of water in the 3 liter bucket – it has to be in the 5 
liter bucket. 
 
Since you can easily get 3 liters of water, that tells you that the “trick” will involve
Since you can easily get 3 liters of water, that tells you that the “trick” will involve 
isolating the remaining 1 liter and getting it into the 5 liter bucket.  So then the question 
comes down to how to get the 1 liter of water in the 3 liter bucket.  You know it has to 
involve pouring water into the 5 liter bucket, and that leads you in the right direction.
0 
Investment Banking 
Interview Questions 
Wall Street Prep 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
2 
Copyright © 2020 by Wall Street Prep. All rights reserved. 
This publication may not be reproduced, stored, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, 
mechanical, photocopying, scanning, or otherwise, without Wall Street Prep's prior written permission. 
Wall Street Prep makes no representations or warranties regarding the accuracy or completeness of the 
contents of this guide and specifically disclaims any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a 
particular purpose. The advice and recommendations contained herein may not be suitable for your specific 
situation. Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss of profit or any other commercial 
damages, including but not limited to special, incidental, and consequential damages. 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
3 
About Wall Street Prep 
Wall Street Prep was established in 2004 by investment bankers to train the financial services industry. 
Today, Wall Street Prep conducts training at more than 150 investment banks, private equity firms, asset 
managers, and Fortune 500 companies, and works with over 100 universities and colleges to bridge the gap 
between academia and the real world by teaching the practical skills needed to succeed on the job. 
Our client list has since grown to include the world’s top investment banks such as Goldman Sachs, Evercore, 
Lazard, Morgan Stanley, and Perella Weinberg. We are also pleased to announce that our training material is 
now used at several of the largest private investment firms, most notably KKR, Bain Capital, and Carlyle. 
For general information on our products and services or technical support, please visit our website at 
wallstreetprep.com, or contact our office at (617) 314-7685. 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
4 
Acknowledgments 
We want to specifically thank the following instructors, without whom this guide would not have been possible. 
Your industry knowledge makes this guide unique in its depth and breadth: Jay Patel, Eric Cheung, Haseeb 
Chowdhry, Ziv Feldman, Adam McGowan, Silab Mohanty, and Jeff Schmidt. 
In addition, this guide draws from the experience of our team of over 50 faculty members, all former 
practitioners in investment banking, private equity, and other buy-side firms. All come from various industry 
and product backgrounds, and their input has been invaluable throughout the writing process. 
And most importantly, we want to thank Justin Kim, who toiled to bring this guide to life, working with our 
faculty and clients to make sure that the interview questions not only reflect what interviewees should expect 
to face, but that the answers reflect the level of detail expected by interviewers. 
Thank you, 
 
 
Matan Feldman 
Founder and Chief Executive Officer, 
Wall Street Prep
Thank you, 
 
 
Matan Feldman 
Founder and Chief Executive Officer, 
Wall Street Prep 
  
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
5 
Investment Banking 
Interview Questions 
Wall Street Prep 
2021 Edition 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
6 
Table of Contents 
Introduction ............................................................................................................................................................................... 7 
Technical Section Introduction ..................................................................................................................................................................... 8 
Accounting Questions .......................................................................................................................................................... 12 
Financial Statements & Accrual Concepts ............................................................................................................................................. 13 
Financial Statement Analysis ...................................................................................................................................................................... 27
Advanced Accounting ..................................................................................................................................................................................... 35 
Valuation Questions ............................................................................................................................................................. 44 
Corporate Finance Theory............................................................................................................................................................................ 45 
Intrinsic Valuation ............................................................................................................................................................................................ 54 
Relative Valuation............................................................................................................................................................................................. 65
Mergers & Acquisitions Questions .................................................................................................................................. 72 
M&A Concepts .................................................................................................................................................................................................... 73 
Accretion/Dilution Modeling ...................................................................................................................................................................... 81 
Leveraged Buyout Questions ............................................................................................................................................. 90 
Private Equity Investing ................................................................................................................................................................................ 91
LBO Modeling .................................................................................................................................................................................................. 104 
LBO Modeling Tests ...................................................................................................................................................................................... 110 
Capital Markets Questions ............................................................................................................................................... 111 
Debt & Leveraged Finance ......................................................................................................................................................................... 112 
Equity Financing ............................................................................................................................................................................................ 122
General Market Knowledge ....................................................................................................................................................................... 133 
Hedge Fund Investing Strategies ............................................................................................................................................................ 140 
Sales & Trading ............................................................................................................................................................................................... 155 
Industry Specific Questions ............................................................................................................................................. 165 
Industry Specific Section Introduction ................................................................................................................................................ 166
Technology, Media & Telecommunications (TMT) ......................................................................................................................... 167 
Software as a Service (SaaS) ..................................................................................................................................................................... 182 
Financial Institutions Groups (FIG) ....................................................................................................................................................... 191 
Healthcare ........................................................................................................................................................................................................ 204 
Consumer Products & Retail .................................................................................................................................................................... 217
Financial Restructuring .............................................................................................................................................................................. 227 
Real Estate (REIT) ......................................................................................................................................................................................... 241 
Real Estate Private Equity (REPE) ......................................................................................................................................................... 244 
Industrials ........................................................................................................................................................................................................ 246
Oil & Gas (O&G) .............................................................................................................................................................................................. 257 
Behavioral Questions ......................................................................................................................................................... 260 
Behavioral Section Introduction ............................................................................................................................................................. 261 
Behavioral Interview Advice .................................................................................................................................................................... 263 
Personal Background Questions ............................................................................................................................................................. 267
Firm Specific Questions .............................................................................................................................................................................. 274 
Past Experiences & Situational Questions .......................................................................................................................................... 278 
Elevator Test Questions .............................................................................................................................................................................. 282 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
7 
ACCOUNTING 
QUESTIONS 
Introduction 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
8 
INTRODUCTION 
Technical Section Introduction 
Dear Reader, 
This interview guide was designed with a single goal in mind: To give you the tools to land a job in investment 
banking and other related financial services sectors.  
There is much material to cover in this guide, so let’s just dive right in. For virtually every technical interview 
question, there are some general principles to govern your approach: 
Keep Answers Concise 
One of the most frequently asked interview questions for investment 
banking is, “How do you value a company?” I could easily take an hour 
to explain how to value a company and I would barely scratch the 
surface. That's not what we're going for in an interview. 
When asked an expansive technical question where you're unsure about the 
appropriate level of detail, it's reasonable to finish a succinct answer with, “Would 
you like a little more detail on any of this?”  
However, while most candidates struggle with keeping answers brief, others have
However, while most candidates struggle with keeping answers brief, others have 
the opposite problem of not giving sufficient details.  
As a rough guideline for questions without clear numerical or concrete answers, the answers should last at 
least 1 minute. This shows the interviewer you're actually taking the time to think and come up with 
thoughtful responses. 
For example, answering the question, “Walk me through the cash flow statement,” by saying, “You start with 
net income, and then make non-cash adjustments to net income to arrive at cash for the year” would not be 
enough to show your understanding. 
Avoid Rambling into Tangents 
The longer your response goes on, the risk of being asked to elaborate 
on a topic you don't fully understand increases in tandem. That being 
said, don't extend beyond your comfort zone and keep answers short 
to avoid giving the interviewer extra reasons to probe deeper.  
Upon responding to a question, a momentary pause from the interviewer is normal,
Upon responding to a question, a momentary pause from the interviewer is normal, 
so don't misconstrue it as meaning that further explanation is required on your end. 
To be able to wait patiently after giving your initial answer shows that you 
recognized the concept the interviewer was testing for, and have confidence that an adequate response was 
provided.  
The more tangents 
in your answer, the 
more likely a 
difficult counter-
point could be 
brought up. 
The interviewer just 
needs to understand 
that you can 
articulate concepts 
at a high level. In 
most cases, answers 
should be no longer 
than 2-3 minutes. 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
9 
INTRODUCTION 
Handle Difficult Questions Effectively 
It's a near certainty that you'll be asked a question to which you don't know the answer. 
Just remember to remain calm and not let the interviewer see you sweat. Firms want to hire individuals who 
are presentable to clients, so remaining calm while under pressure is essential. 
The most important thing is that if the interview takes a turn in the wrong direction: don't fall into a 
downward spiral because it's rarely as bad as you might think. 
There are three types of approach you can take when you're unsure how to answer a ques tion: 
If you kind of know something related to what is being asked 
First and foremost: avoid guessing. Instead, look for a way to describe the parts of the question 
you understand and then be upfront about where you're unsure. 
For example, if you're unsure how to answer: "How would you value a bank?" You might say, 
"Well, I know that banks are different from traditional companies in that their main source of
"Well, I know that banks are different from traditional companies in that their main source of 
revenue comes from interest on loans, but I don't think I understand bank valuation that well 
and this is definitely something I plan to look into after this interview." 
1 
If you think you know the subject matter but don't understand the question 
When a question is asked in an unclear or vague manner, you'll want to reformulate the 
question back to the interviewer for some clarification. 
For example, if an interviewer asks: "Is EBITDA usually lower or higher than cash flow?" You 
could begin by asking, "Just to confirm I'm understanding the question correctly, are you 
defining cash flow here as unlevered free cash flows or as operating cash flows?" 
2 
If you just flat out don't know the answer 
In this situation, it's preferable to say, "Honestly, I would need to think about that more and 
would rather not guess because I don't think I'll be able to give a sufficient answer ."
would rather not guess because I don't think I'll be able to give a sufficient answer ."  
Here, it's necessary to come off as humble as you don't want to appear indifferent to the fact 
that you don't know the answer. An important part of damage control is using the opportunity 
to show the interviewer your professionalism under stress. While not a technical skill, this is a 
key interpersonal skill that firms look for. 
3 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
12  
ACCOUNTING 
 QUESTIONS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accounting  
Questions 
 
   
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
13 
ACCOUNTING 
QUESTIONS 
Financial Statements & Accrual Concepts 
What is the primary purpose of US GAAP? 
In the US, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") authorizes the Financial 
Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") to determine the set of accounting rules 
followed by publicly traded companies. 
Under FASB, financial statements are required to be prepared in accordance with US 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("US GAAP").  
Through the standardization of financial reporting and ensuring all financials are 
presented on a fair, consistent basis – the interests of investors and lenders are 
protected. 
What are the main sections of a 10-K? 
In a 10-K, you'll find the three core financial statements, which are the income statement, cash flow statement, 
and balance sheet. There'll also be a statement of shareholders’ equity, a statement of comprehensive income, 
and supplementary data and disclosures to accompany the financials. 
Main Sections of a 10-K
and supplementary data and disclosures to accompany the financials. 
Main Sections of a 10-K 
Business Overview Overview of the company’s business divisions, strategy, product or service 
offerings, seasonality, geographical footprint, and key risks. 
Management’s Discussion & 
Analysis ("MD&A") 
Commentary and summarized analysis of the company’s fiscal year result from 
the perspective of the management team. 
Financial Statements The “Core 3”: Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement 
The “Other 2”: Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of 
Shareholders’ Equity 
Notes Supplementary disclosures to the financial statements that provide more 
details about a company’s recent financial performance. 
What is the difference between the 10-K and 10-Q? 
10-K: A 10-K is the annual report required to be filed with the SEC for any public company in the U.S. The
report is comprehensive and includes a full overview of the business operations, commentary on recent
performance by management, risk factors, disclosures on changes in accounting policies – and most
importantly, the three core financial statements with supplementary data.
10-Q: A 10-Q refers to the quarterly report required to be filed with the SEC. Compared to the 10-K, this
report is far more condensed in length and depth, with the focus being on the quarterly financials with
brief sections for MD&A and supplementary disclosures.
Additional Differences: A few more differences are 10-Ks are required to be audited by an independent
accounting firm, but 10-Qs are only reviewed by CPAs and left unaudited. 10-Ks must also be filed ~60-90
days after the fiscal year ends, whereas 10-Qs must be submitted ~40-45 days after the quarter ends.
Watch Video → 
Basic Accounting 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
14 
ACCOUNTING 
QUESTIONS 
Walk me through the three financial statements.  
1. Income Statement ("IS"): The income statement shows a company's profitability 
over a specified period, typically quarterly and annually. The beginning line item is 
revenue and upon deducting various costs and expenses, the ending line item is net 
income. 
2. Balance Sheet ("BS"): The balance sheet is a snapshot of a company's resources 
(assets) and sources of funding (liabilities and shareholders' equity) at a specific 
point in time, such as the end of a quarter or fiscal year.  
3. Cash Flow Statement ("CFS"): Under the indirect approach, the starting line item is net income, which 
will be adjusted for non-cash items such as D&A and changes in working capital to arrive at cash from 
operations. Cash from investing and financing activities are then added to cash from operations to arrive 
at the net change in cash, which represents the actual cash inflows/(outflows) in a given period.
at the net change in cash, which represents the actual cash inflows/(outflows) in a given period.  
Walk me through the income statement.  
The income statement shows a company’s accrual-based profitability over a specified 
time period and facilitates the analysis of its historical growth and operational 
performance. The table below lists the major income and expense components of the 
income statement: 
 
Income Statement Typical Components 
Net Revenue (or Sales) The income statement begins with revenue (often called the “top line"), which 
represents the total value of all sales of goods and delivery of services 
throughout a specified period. 
Less: Cost of Goods Sold  COGS represents the costs directly tied to producing revenue, such as the costs 
of materials and direct labor. 
Gross Profit Revenues – Cost of Goods Sold = Gross Profit 
Less: Selling, General & 
Administrative ("SG&A") 
Operating expenses that are not directly associated with the good or service
Operating expenses that are not directly associated with the good or service 
being sold (e.g., payroll, wages, overhead, advertising, and marketing). 
Less: Research & 
Development ("R&D") 
R&D refers to developing new products or procedures to improve their existing 
product/service offering mix. 
EBITDA Gross Profit – SG&A – R&D = EBITDA 
EBITDA stands for: Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation & 
Amortization. 
Less: Depreciation & 
Amortization ("D&A") 
D&A is a non-cash expense that estimates the annual reduction in the value of 
fixed and intangible assets 
Operating Income ("EBIT") EBITDA – D&A = Operating Income (or EBIT) 
EBIT stands for: Earnings Before Interest and Taxes. 
Less: Interest Expense, net Interest expense from debt, net of interest income generated from investments. 
Pre-Tax Income ("EBT") EBIT – Interest Expense, net = Pre-Tax Income (or “Earnings Before Tax”) 
Less: Tax Expense Tax liability recorded by a company for book purposes.
Less: Tax Expense Tax liability recorded by a company for book purposes. 
Net Income EBT – Tax Expense = Net Income (referred to as the “bottom line”) 
Watch Video → 
The 3 Financial 
Statements 
Watch Video → 
The Income 
Statement 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
15 
ACCOUNTING 
QUESTIONS 
Apple Inc. | Historical Income Statement (Snapshot from Financial Statement Modeling Course) 
 
Walk me through the balance sheet. 
The balance sheet shows a company’s assets, liabilities, and equity sections at a 
specific point in time. The fundamental accounting equation is: Assets = Liabilities + 
Shareholders’ Equity. The assets belonging to a company must have been funded 
somehow, so assets will always be equal to the sum of liabilities and equity. 
 Assets Section: Assets are organized in the order of liquidity, with “Current 
Assets” being assets that can be converted into cash within a year, such as cash 
itself, along with marketable securities, accounts receivable, prepaid expenses, 
and inventories. “Long-Term Assets” include property, plant, and equipment (PP&E), intangible assets, 
goodwill, and long-term investments. 
 Liabilities Section: Liabilities are listed in the order of how close they're to coming due. “Current
Liabilities” include accounts payable, accrued expenses, and short-term debt, while “Long-Term Liabilities” 
include items such as long-term debt, deferred revenue, and deferred income taxes. 
 Shareholders’ Equity Section: The equity section consists of common stock, additional paid-in capital 
(APIC), treasury stock, and retained earnings.  
Could you give further context on what assets, liabilities, and equity each represent? 
 Assets: Assets are resources with economic value that can be sold for money or bring positive monetary 
benefits in the future. For example, cash and marketable securities are a store of monetary value that can 
be invested to earn interest/returns, accounts receivable are payments due from customers, and PP&E is 
used to generate cash flows in the future – all representing inflows of cash. 
 Liabilities: Liabilities are unsettled obligations to another party in the future and represent the external
sources of capital from third-parties, which help fund the company's assets (e.g., debt capital, payments 
owed to suppliers/vendors). Unlike assets, liabilities represent future outflows of cash. 
 Equity: Equity is the capital invested in the business and represents the internal sources of capital that 
helped fund its assets. The providers of capital could range from being self-funded to outside institutional 
investors. In addition, the accumulated net profits over time will be shown here as "Retained Earnings."  
Apple Income Statement 2016A 2017A 2018A 2019A
($ in millions) 9/30/16 9/30/17 9/29/18 12/31/19
Revenue $215,639 $229,234 $265,595 $260,174
Less: Cost of Revenue (131,376) (141,048) (163,756) (161,782)
Gross Profit $84,263 $88,186 $101,839 $98,392
Less: Research & Development (R&D) (10,045) (11,581) (14,236) (16,217)
Less: Selling, General & Administrative (SG&A) (14,194) (15,261) (16,705) (18,245)
Operating Income (EBIT) $60,024 $61,344 $70,898 $63,930
Operating Income (EBIT) $60,024 $61,344 $70,898 $63,930
Plus: Interest Income 3,999 5,201 5,686 4,961
Less: Interest Expense (1,456) (2,323) (3,240) (3,576)
Less: Other Expense, net (1,195) (133) (441) 422
Pre-Tax Income (EBT) $61,372 $64,089 $72,903 $65,737
Less: Taxes (15,685) (15,738) (13,372) (10,481)
Net Income $45,687 $48,351 $59,531 $55,256
Watch Video → 
Balance Sheet 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
16 
ACCOUNTING 
QUESTIONS 
What are the typical line items you might find on the balance sheet? 
 
Assets Section 
Current Assets (Listed in Order of Liquidity) 
Cash & Cash Equivalents This line item includes cash itself and highly liquid, cash-like investments, such 
as commercial paper and short-term government bonds. 
Marketable Securities  Marketable securities are short-term debt or equity securities held by the 
company that can be liquidated to cash relatively quickly. 
Accounts Receivable A/R refers to payments owed to a business by its customers for products and 
services already delivered to them (i.e., an "IOU" from the customer). 
Inventories Inventories are raw materials, unfinished goods, and finished goods waiting to 
be sold and the direct costs associated with producing those goods. 
Prepaid Expenses Prepaid expenses are payments made in advance for goods or services expected 
to be provided on a later date, such as utilities, insurance, and rent. 
Non-Current Assets 
Property, Plant &
Non-Current Assets 
Property, Plant & 
Equipment ("PP&E") 
Fixed assets such as land, buildings, vehicles, and machinery used to 
manufacture or provide the company’s services and products. 
Intangible Assets Intangible assets are non-physical, acquired assets such as patents, trademarks, 
and intellectual property ("IP"). 
Goodwill An intangible asset created to capture the excess of the purchase price over the 
fair market value ("FMV") of an acquired asset. 
 
  
Liabilities Section 
Current Liabilities (Listed in Order of Liquidity) 
Accounts Payable A/P represents unpaid bills to suppliers and vendors for services/products 
already received but were paid for on credit. 
Accrued Expenses Accrued expenses are incurred expenses such as employee compensation or 
utilities that have not been paid, often due to the invoice not being received. 
Short-Term Debt Debt payments coming due within twelve months, with the current portion of 
long-term debt also included. 
Non-Current Liabilities
long-term debt also included. 
Non-Current Liabilities 
Deferred Revenue Unearned revenue received in advance for goods or services not yet delivered to 
the customer (can be either current or non-current). 
Deferred Taxes Tax expense recognized under GAAP but not yet paid because of temporary 
timing differences between book and tax accounting. 
Long-Term Debt Long-term debt is any debt capital with a maturity exceeding twelve months. 
Lease Obligations Leases are long-term contractual agreements, allowing a company to lease 
PP&E for a specific time period in exchange for regular payments. 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
44 
MERGERS & 
ACQUISTIONS 
QUESTIONS 
Valuation Questions 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
45 
VALUATION 
QUESTIONS 
Corporate Finance Theory 
Could you explain the concept of present value and how it relates to company valuations? 
The present value concept is based on the premise that "a dollar in the present is 
worth more than a dollar in the future" due to the time value of money. The reason 
being money currently in possession has the potential to earn interest by being 
invested today. 
Present Value t= 0 = Cash Flow t=1
(1 + r) t=1  
For intrinsic valuation methods, the value of a company will be equal to the sum of the 
present value of all the future cash flows it generates. Therefore, a company with a high 
valuation would imply it receives high returns on its invested capital by investing in positive net present value 
("NPV") projects consistently while having low risk associated with its cash flows. 
What is equity value and how is it calculated? 
Often used interchangeably with the term market capitalization (“market cap”), equity value represents a
company's value to its equity shareholders. A company's equity value is calculated by multiplying its latest 
closing share price by its total diluted shares outstanding, as shown below: 
Equity Value = Latest Closing Share Price × Total Diluted Shares Outstanding 
How do you calculate the fully diluted number of shares outstanding? 
The treasury stock method ("TSM") is used to calculate the fully diluted number of 
shares outstanding based on the options, warrants, and other dilutive securities that 
are currently “in-the-money” (i.e., profitable to exercise).  
The TSM involves summing up the number of in-the-money ("ITM") options and 
warrants and then adding that figure to the number of basic shares outstanding.  
In the proceeding step, the TSM assumes the proceeds from exercising those dilutive 
options will go towards repurchasing stock at the current share price to reduce the net 
dilutive impact. 
What is enterprise value and how do you calculate it?
dilutive impact. 
What is enterprise value and how do you calculate it? 
Conceptually, enterprise value ("EV") represents the value of the operations of a 
company to all stakeholders including common shareholders, preferred shareholders, 
and debt lenders. 
Thus, enterprise value is considered capital structure neutral, unlike equity value, 
which is affected by financing decisions. 
Enterprise value is calculated by taking the company's equity value and adding net 
debt, preferred stock, and minority interest. 
Enterprise Value = Equity Value + Net Debt + Preferred Stock + Minority Interest 
How do you calculate equity value from enterprise value? 
To get to equity value from enterprise value, you would first subtract net debt, where net debt equals the 
company’s gross debt and debt-like claims (e.g., preferred stock), net of cash, and non-operating assets. 
Equity Value = Enterprise Value – Net Debt – Preferred Stock – Minority Interest 
Watch Video → 
Present Value  
Basics 
Watch Video →
Watch Video → 
Present Value  
Basics 
Watch Video → 
Diluted Share  
Count 
Equity value represents 
just the residual value 
to equity holders, 
whereas enterprise 
value pertains to all 
providers of capital. 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
46 
VALUATION 
QUESTIONS 
Which line items are included in the calculation of net debt? 
The calculation of net debt accounts for all interest-bearing debt, such as short-term 
and long-term loans and bonds, as well as non-equity financial claims such as 
preferred stock and non-controlling interests. From this gross debt amount, cash and 
other non-operating assets such as short-term investments and equity investments are 
subtracted to arrive at net debt. 
Net Debt = Total Debt – Cash & Equivalents 
When calculating enterprise value, why do we add net debt?  
The underlying idea of net debt is that the cash on a company’s balance sheet could pay down the outstanding 
debt if needed. For this reason, cash and cash equivalents are netted against the company’s debt, and many 
leverage ratios use net debt rather than the gross amount. 
What is the difference between enterprise value and equity value? 
Enterprise value represents all stakeholders in a business, including equity
Enterprise value represents all stakeholders in a business, including equity 
shareholders, debt lenders, and preferred stock owners. Therefore, it's independent of 
the capital structure. In addition, enterprise value is closer to the actual value of the 
business since it accounts for all ownership stakes (as opposed to just equity owners). 
To tie this to a recent example, many investors were astonished that Zoom, a video 
conferencing platform, had a higher market capitalization than seven of the largest 
airlines combined at one point. The points being neglected were: 
 The equity values of the airline companies were temporarily deflated given the travel restrictions, and the 
government bailout had not yet been announced. 
 The airlines are significantly more mature and have far more debt on their balance sheet (i.e., more non-
equity stakeholders). 
Could a company have a negative net debt balance and have an enterprise value lower than its 
equity value?
equity value? 
Yes, negative net debt just means that a company has more cash than debt. For example, both Apple and 
Microsoft have massive negative net debt balances because they hoard cash. In these cases, companies will 
have enterprise values lower than their equity value. 
If it seems counter-intuitive that enterprise value can be lower than equity value, remember that enterprise 
value represents the value of a company’s operations, which excludes any non-operating assets. When you 
think about it this way, it should come as no surprise that companies with much cash (which is treated as a 
non-operating asset) will have a higher equity value than enterprise value. 
Can the enterprise value of a company turn negative? 
While negative enterprise values are a rare occurrence, it does happen from time to time . A negative enterprise 
value means a company has a net cash balance (total cash less total debt) that exceeds its equity value. Imagine
a company with $1,000 in cash, no other assets and $500 in debt and $200 in accounts payable.  There is $300 
in equity in this business, while the enterprise value is -$200.  
If a company raises $250 million in additional debt, how would its enterprise value change? 
Theoretically, there should be no impact as enterprise value is capital structure neutral. The new debt raised 
shouldn't impact the enterprise value, as the cash and debt balance would increase and offset the other entry. 
Watch Video → 
Net Debt 
Watch Video → 
Enterprise Value  
vs Equity Value 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
47 
VALUATION 
QUESTIONS 
However, the cost of financing (i.e., through financing fees and interest expense) could negatively impact the 
company's profitability and lead to a lower valuation from the higher cost of debt. 
Why do we add minority interest to equity value in the calculation of enterprise value? 
Minority interest represents the portion of a subsidiary in which the parent company doesn't own. Under US 
GAAP , if a company has ownership over 50% of another company but below 100% (called a “minority interest” 
or “non-controlling investment”), it must include 100% of the subsidiary’s financials in their financial 
statements despite not owning 100%.  
When calculating multiples using EV, the numerator will be the consolidated metric, thus minority interest 
must be added to enterprise value for the multiple to be compatible (i.e., no mismatch between the numerator 
and denominator). 
How are convertible bonds and preferred equity with a convertible feature accounted for when
How are convertible bonds and preferred equity with a convertible feature accounted for when 
calculating enterprise value? 
If the convertible bonds and the preferred equities are “in-the-money” as of the valuation date (i.e., the current 
stock price is greater than their strike price), then the treatment will be the same as additional dilution from 
equity. However, if they're “out-of-the-money,” they would be treated as a financial liability (similar to debt). 
What are the two main approaches to valuation? 
1. Intrinsic Valuation: For an intrinsic valuation, the value of a business is arrived at
by looking at the business's ability to generate cash flows. The discounted cash
flow method is the most common type of intrinsic valuation and is based on the
notion that a business's value equals the present value of its future free cash flows.
2. Relative Valuation: In relative valuation, a business's value is arrived at by 
looking at comparable companies and applying the average or median multiples
looking at comparable companies and applying the average or median multiples 
derived from the peer group – often EV/EBITDA, P/E, or some other relevant 
multiple to value the target. This valuation can be done by looking at the multiples of comparable public 
companies using their current market values, which is called "trading comps," or by looking at the 
multiples of comparable companies recently acquired, which is called "transaction comps." 
What are the most common valuation methods used in finance? 
Valuation Methods 
Comparable Company Analysis 
("Trading Comps") 
Trading comps value a company based on how similar publicly-traded 
companies are currently being valued at by the market. 
Comparable Transactions Analysis 
("Transaction Comps") 
Transaction comps value a company based on the amount buyers paid to 
acquire similar companies in recent years. 
Discounted Cash Flow Analysis 
("DCF") 
DCFs value a company based on the premise that its value is a function of
("DCF") 
DCFs value a company based on the premise that its value is a function of 
its projected cash flows, discounted at an appropriate rate that reflects 
the risk of those cash flows. 
Leveraged Buyout Analysis 
("LBO") 
An LBO will look at a potential acquisition target under a highly 
leveraged scenario to determine the maximum purchase price the firm 
would be willing to pay. 
Liquidation Analysis Liquidation analysis is used for companies under (or near) distress and 
values the assets of the company under a hypothetical, worst-case 
scenario liquidation. 
Watch Video → 
Valuation Methods 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
48 
VALUATION 
QUESTIONS 
Among the DCF , comparable companies analysis, and transaction comps, which approach yields 
the highest valuation? 
Transaction comps analysis often yields the highest valuation because it looks at valuations for companies that 
have been acquired, which factor in control premiums. Control premiums can often be quite significant and as 
high as 25% to 50% above market prices. Thus, the multiples derived from this analysis and the resulting 
valuation are usually higher than a straight trading comps valuation or a standalone DCF valuation. 
Which of the valuation methodologies is the most variable in terms of output? 
Because of its reliance on forward-looking projections and discretionary assumptions, the DCF is the most 
variable out of the different valuation methodologies. Relative valuation methodologies such as trading and 
transaction comps are based on the actual prices paid for similar companies. While there'll be some discretion
involved, the valuations derived from comps deviate to a lesser extent than DCF models. 
Contrast the discounted cash flow (DCF) approach to the trading comps approach. 
 
 Advantages Disadvantages 
Discounted Cash 
Flow (DCF) 
 The DCF values a company based on 
the company’s forecasted cash flows. 
 This approach is viewed as the most 
direct and academically rigorous way 
to measure value. 
 Considered to be independent of the 
market and instead based on the 
fundamentals of the company. 
 The DCF suffers from several drawbacks; 
most notably, it's very sensitive to 
assumptions. 
 Forecasting the financial performance of 
a company is challenging, especially if the 
forecast period is extended. 
 Many criticize the use of beta in the 
calculation of WACC, as well as how the 
terminal value comprises around three-
quarters of the implied valuation. 
Trading Comps 
  Trading comps value a company by 
looking at how the market values 
similar businesses. 
 Thus, comps relies much more
looking at how the market values 
similar businesses. 
 Thus, comps relies much more 
heavily on market pricing to 
determine the value of a company 
(i.e., the most recent, actual prices 
paid in the public markets). 
 In reality, there are very few truly 
comparable companies, so in effect, 
it's always an “apples and oranges” 
comparison. 
 While the value derived from a comps 
analysis is viewed by many as a more 
realistic assessment of how a company 
could expect to be priced, it's vulnerable 
to how the market is not always right. 
 Therefore, a comps analysis is simply 
pricing, as opposed to a valuation based 
on the company’s fundamentals. 
 Comps make just as many assumptions 
as a DCF , but they are made implicitly (as 
opposed to being explicitly chosen 
assumptions like in a DCF). 
How can you determine which valuation method to use? 
Each valuation method has its shortcomings; therefore, a combination of different valuation techniques should
be used to arrive at a range of valuation estimates. Using various methods allows you to arrive at a more 
defensible approximation and sanity-check your assumptions.  
The DCF and trading comps are often used in concert such that the comps provide a market-based sanity-check 
to intrinsic DCF valuation (and vice versa).  
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
49 
VALUATION 
QUESTIONS 
For example, an analyst valuing an acquisition target may look at the past premiums and values paid on 
comparable transactions to determine what the acquirer must realistically expect to pay. The analyst may also 
value the company using a DCF to help show how far market prices are from intrinsic value estimates.  
Another example of when the DCF and comps approaches can be used together is when an investor considers 
investing in a business – the analyst may identify investing opportunities where comps-derived market values 
for companies are significantly lower than valuations derived using a DCF (although it bears repeating that the 
DCF’s sensitivity to assumptions is a frequent criticism). 
Would you agree with the statement that relative valuation relies less on the discretionary 
assumptions of individuals? 
That could be argued as an inaccurate statement. While a comps analysis often yields different valuations from
a DCF , that’s only because of inconsistent implicit assumptions across both approaches. If the implicit 
assumptions of the comps analysis were entirely consistent with the explicit 
assumptions of the DCF analysis, the valuations using both approaches would 
theoretically be equal. 
When you apply a peer-derived multiple to value a business, you're still implicitly 
making assumptions about future cash flows, cost of capital, and returns that you 
would make explicitly when building a DCF . The difference is, you're relying on the 
assumptions used by others in the market. 
So when you perform relative valuation, you assume the market consensus to be accurate or at least close to 
the right value of a company and that those investors in the market are rational. 
What does free cash flow (FCF) represent? 
Free cash flow ("FCF") represents a company's discretionary cash flow, meaning the cash flow remaining after 
accounting for the recurring expenditures to continue operating.
accounting for the recurring expenditures to continue operating.  
The simplest calculation of FCF is shown below: 
Free Cash Flow (FCF) = Cash from Operations – Capex 
The cash from investing section, other than capex, and the financing section are excluded because these 
activities are optional and discretionary decisions up to management.  
Why are periodic acquisitions excluded from the calculation of FCF? 
The calculation of free cash flow should include only inflows/(outflows) of cash from the core, recurring 
operations. That said, a periodic acquisition is a one-time, unforeseeable event, whereas capex is recurring and 
a normal part of operations (i.e., capex is required for a business to continue operating). 
Explain the importance of excluding non-operating income/(expenses) for valuations. 
For both DCF analysis or comps analysis, the intent is to value the operations of the business, which requires 
you to set apart the core operations to normalize the figures.
you to set apart the core operations to normalize the figures. 
 When performing a DCF analysis, the cash flows projected should be strictly from the business's recurring 
operations, which would come from the sale of goods and services provided. A few examples of non-
operating income to exclude would be income from investments, dividends, or an asset sale. Each example 
represents income that's non-recurring and from a discretionary decision unrelated to the core operations. 
 When performing comps, the core operations of the target and its comparables are benchmarked. To make 
the comparison as close to “apples to apples” as possible, non-core operating income/(expenses) and any 
non-recurring items should be excluded. 
All valuation methods 
contain some degree of 
inherent bias; thus, 
various methods should 
be used in conjunction. 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
72  
MERGERS & 
ACQUISTIONS 
QUESTIONS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mergers & Acquisitions Questions  
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
73 
MERGERS & 
ACQUISTIONS 
QUESTIONS 
M&A Concepts 
Can you define M&A and explain the difference between a merger and an acquisition? 
Mergers and acquisitions (M&A) is an umbrella term that refers to the combination of two businesses. To 
buyers, M&A serves as an alternative to organic growth, whereas for sellers, M&A provides an opportunity to 
cash out or share in the newly formed entity's risk/reward.  
The two terms are often used interchangeably but have some minor differences: 
 Merger: A merger suggests the combination of two similarly sized companies (i.e., "merger of equals"), 
where the form of consideration is at least partially with stock, so shareholders from both entities remain. 
In most cases, the two companies will operate under a combined name (e.g., ExxonMobil, Kraft Heinz, 
Citigroup), whereas sometimes the new combined entity will be renamed. 
 Acquisition: An acquisition typically implies the target was of smaller-size than the purchaser. The
target's name will usually slowly dissipate over time as the target becomes integrated with the acquirer. In 
other cases (e.g., Salesforce's acquisition of Slack, Google's acquisition of Fitbit), the target will operate as a 
subsidiary to take advantage of its established branding. 
What are some potential reasons that a company might acquire another company?  
 Value Creation from Revenue and Cost Synergies 
 Ownership of Technology Assets (IP , Patents, Proprietary Technology) 
 Talent Acquisitions (New Skilled Employees)  
 Expansion in Geographic Reach or into New Product/Service Markets  
 Diversification in Revenue Sources (Less Risk, Lower Cost of Capital) 
 Reduce Time to Market with New Product Launches 
 Increased Number of Channels to Sell Products/Services 
 Market Leadership and Decreased Competition (if Horizontal Integration) 
 Achieve Supply Chain Efficiencies (if Vertical Integration) 
 Tax Benefits (if Target has NOLs)
Achieve Supply Chain Efficiencies (if Vertical Integration) 
 Tax Benefits (if Target has NOLs) 
What are the differences among vertical, horizontal, and conglomerate mergers? 
 Vertical Merger: A vertical merger involves two or more companies that serve different value chain 
functions. From the increased control over the supply chain, the combined entity should theoretically 
eliminate inefficiencies. 
 Horizontal Merger: A horizontal merger comprises a merger amongst companies directly competing in 
the same (or very similar) market. Thus, following a horizontal merger, competition in the market 
decreases (e.g., Sprint & T-Mobile merger). Notable benefits that stem from a horizontal merger are the 
increased geographical coverage to sell products/services and an increase in pricing power. 
 Conglomerate: A conglomerate refers to the combination of multiple business entities operating in 
unrelated industries for diversification purposes – an example would be Berkshire Hathaway.
unrelated industries for diversification purposes – an example would be Berkshire Hathaway. 
In terms of vertical integration, what is the difference between forward and backward integration? 
 Backward Integration: When an acquirer moves upstream, it means they're purchasing suppliers or 
manufacturers of the product the company sells – this is known as backward integration.  
 Forward Integration: When an acquirer moves downstream, it means they're purchasing a company that 
moves them closer to the end customer such as a distributor or technical support – this is known as 
forward integration. 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
74 
MERGERS & 
ACQUISTIONS 
QUESTIONS 
Describe a recent M&A deal. 
For M&A interviews, come prepared to discuss at least one recent transaction in-detail. To understand the 
rationale behind an M&A deal and the market’s perception of the proposed (or closed) transaction, review 
press releases and articles with commentary on the deal from reliable sources. Also, look at the current 
competitive dynamics within the industries relevant to the deal and the ongoing trends that could further 
explain why the transaction was completed. 
The specific details regarding the deal which should be included in your response include: 
 Name of Acquirer and Target Company (along with a business profiles of each) 
 Merger or Acquisition Strategic Rationale (can be found in the Form S-4 or publicly announced) 
 Approximate Transaction Size, Premium Offered, and Form of Consideration (if publicly disclosed) 
 Acquirer and Target's Share Price Movement Post-Announcement
Acquirer and Target's Share Price Movement Post-Announcement 
 Personal Perspective on the Transaction – "In your opinion, was this a good deal?" 
For an example of how to review an M&A transaction, see our analysis on the acquisition of LinkedIn. 
Read More → Ultimate Guide to M&A + Breakdown of Microsoft’s Acquisition of LinkedIn  
What are synergies and why are they important in a deal? 
Synergies are the expected cost savings or incremental revenues arising from an acquisition. They're important 
because if an acquirer believes synergies can be realized, a higher premium would be paid. 
1. Revenue Synergies: Cross-selling, upselling, product bundling, new distribution channels, geographic 
expansion, access to new end markets, reduced competition leads to more pricing power 
2. Cost Synergies: Eliminate overlapping workforces (reduce headcount), closure or consolidation of 
redundant facilities, streamlined processes, purchasing power over suppliers, tax savings (NOLs)
redundant facilities, streamlined processes, purchasing power over suppliers, tax savings (NOLs) 
Why should companies acquired by strategic acquirers expect to fetch higher premiums than those 
selling to private equity buyers? 
Strategic buyers can often benefit from synergies, which enables them to offer a higher price. However, the 
recent trend of financial buyers making add-on acquisitions has enabled them to fare better in auctions and 
place higher bids since the platform company can benefit from synergies similar to a strategic buyer. 
How do you perform premiums paid analysis in M&A? 
Premiums paid analysis is a type of analysis prepared by investment bankers when advising a public target, in 
which the average premium paid in comparable transactions serves as a reference point for an active deal. The 
presumption being the average of the historical premiums paid in those comparables deals should be a proxy 
(or sanity check) for the premium to be received in the current deal.
(or sanity check) for the premium to be received in the current deal. 
Read More → Premiums Paid Analysis in M&A 
Tell me about the two main types of auction structures in M&A. 
1. Broad Auction: In a broad auction, the sell-side bank will reach out to as many prospective buyers as 
possible to maximize the number of interested buyers. Since competition directly correlates with the 
valuation, the goal is to cast a wide net to intensify an auction's competitiveness and increase the 
likelihood of finding the highest possible offer (i.e., removing the risk of “leaving money on the table”) 
2. Targeted Auction: In a targeted auction, the sell-side bank (usually under the client's direction) will have 
a shortlist of buyers contacted. These contacted buyers may already have a strong strategic fit with the 
client or a pre-existing relationship with the seller.  
Read More → Sell-Side Process 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
75 
MERGERS & 
ACQUISTIONS 
QUESTIONS 
What is a negotiated sale? 
A negotiated sale involves only a handful of potential buyers and is most appropriate when there's a specific 
buyer the seller has in mind. A potential reason for this type of sale approach could be the seller intends to stay 
on and strongly values the partnership and growth opportunities.  
Under this approach, the speed of close and confidentiality are two distinct benefits. These deals are negotiated 
“behind-closed-doors” and generally on friendlier terms based on the best interests of the client. 
What are some of the most common reasons that M&A deals fail to create value? 
 Overpaying/Overestimating Synergies: Nearly all M&A deals involve a premium in the purchase price. 
Even if the deal results in positive results, it might not be enough to justify the premium. Overpaying for an 
asset goes hand-in-hand with overestimating synergies. Synergies are challenging to achieve in practice
and should be estimated conservatively, but doing so would result in missing out on acquisition 
opportunities and being out-bid. An acquirer often has to accept that the expected synergies used to justify 
the premium paid may not be met for the sake of completing the deal. 
 Inadequate Due Diligence: An acquirer will often fail to perform sufficient diligence before acquiring a 
company. The decision may have been made while overly-focused on the target's positives and the 
potential post-integration benefits while neglecting the risks. A competitive auction with a short timeline 
can lead to this type of poor judgment, in which the other buyers become a distraction. 
 Lack of Strategic Plan: For an M&A deal, when an acquirer becomes fixated on pursuing more resources 
and achieving greater scale without an actual strategy, this can lead to synergies not being realized despite 
an abundance of resources on-hand and potential growth opportunities.
an abundance of resources on-hand and potential growth opportunities.  
 Poor Execution/Integration: Post-closing, the acquirer's management team may exhibit poor leadership 
and an inability to integrate the new acquisition. This poor integration can lead to diminished employee 
morale, cultural mismatches, and a noticeable drop in product/service quality. Of all the reasons M&A 
deals can fail, cultural compatibility can be the trickiest risk to assess. 
Studies have repeatedly shown a high percentage of deals destroy shareholder value. If that's the 
case, why do companies still engage in M&A? 
Many studies have concluded that most M&A deals destroy shareholder value. Yet, 
many companies continue to pursue growth through M&A.  
One reason companies choose to engage in M&A is that many deals are done out of 
necessity, meaning they were defensive measures taken to protect their market share 
or to maintain competitive parity. Once a company owns a sizeable percentage of a
or to maintain competitive parity. Once a company owns a sizeable percentage of a 
market, its focus shifts towards protecting its existing market share as opposed to 
growth and stealing more market share (i.e., the company is now the target 
incumbent to steal market share from).  
Therefore, the company must always be on the look-out for developing trends or companies that could 
someday become a threat, which is closely related to technological adaptation and staying innovative as 
industries continuously develop. M&A is a method for companies to fend off outside threats and gain new 
technological capabilities. 
What is the purpose of a teaser? 
A teaser is a one to two-page marketing document that's usually put together by a sell-side banker on behalf of 
their client. The teaser is the first marketing document presented to potential buyers and is used to gauge their 
initial interest in formally taking part in the sale process. The intent is to generate enough interest for a buyer
to sign an NDA to receive the confidential information memorandum ("CIM").  
M&A is often a 
defensive response 
to structural sector 
disruption that 
presents a threat to 
an existing business 
model. 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
76 
MERGERS & 
ACQUISTIONS 
QUESTIONS 
The content found in a teaser will be limited, and the name of the company is never revealed in the document 
(instead “Project [Placeholder Name]”), and the teaser only provides the basic background/financial 
information of the company to hide the identity of the client and protect confidentiality. The information 
provided is a brief description of the business operations, investment highlights, and summary financials (e.g., 
revenue, operating income, EBITDA over the past two or three years) – just enough details for the buyer to 
understand what the business does, assess recent performance and determine whether to proceed or pass. 
What does a confidential information memorandum (CIM) consist of? 
A confidential information memorandum ("CIM") provides potential buyers with an in-depth overview of the 
business being offered for sale. Once a buyer has executed an NDA, the sell-side investment bank will distribute
the CIM to the private equity firm or strategic buyer for review.  
The format of the CIM can range from being a 20 to 50-page document with the specific contents being a 
detailed company profile, market overview, industry trends, investment highlights, business segments, product 
or service offerings, past summary financials, performance projections (called the “Management Case”), 
management biographies, and the transaction details/timing.  
Read More → Confidential Information Memorandum (CIM) 
What are the typical components found in a letter of intent (LOI)? 
Once a buyer has proceeded with the next steps in making a potential acquisition, the next step is to provide 
the seller with a formal letter of intent ("LOI"). An LOI is a letter stating the proposed initial terms, including 
the purchase price, the form of consideration, and planned financing sources. Usually non-binding, an LOI 
represents what a definitive agreement could look like, but there's still room for negotiation and revisions to be
made in submitted LOIs (i.e., this is not a final document). 
Read More → Letter of Intent (LOI) 
What are “no-shop” provisions in M&A deals? 
In most M&A deal agreements, there'll be a dedicated section called the “no solicitation” provision, or more 
commonly known as the “no-shop” provision. No-shop provisions protect the buyer and give exclusivity during 
negotiations. The sell-side representative is prevented from looking for higher bids and leveraging the buyer’s 
current bid with other buyers. Violating the no-shop would trigger a significant breakup fee by the seller, and 
an investigation would be made into the sell-side bank to see if they were contacting potential buyers when 
legally restricted from doing so. On the other side, a seller can protect themselves using reverse termination 
fees ("RTFs"), which allow the seller to collect a fee if the buyer were to walk away from the deal.  
Read More → Breakup Fees and Reverse Termination Fees in M&A
Read More → Breakup Fees and Reverse Termination Fees in M&A 
What is a material adverse change (MAC), and could you provide some examples? 
In an M&A transaction, a material adverse change ("MAC") is a highly negotiated, legal mechanism intended to 
reduce the risk of buying and selling parties from the merger agreement date to the deal closure date. MACs are 
legal clauses included in virtually all merger agreements that list out the conditions that allow the buyer the 
right to walk away from a deal without facing legal repercussions or significant fines. 
Common Examples of MACs 
 Significant Changes in Economic Conditions, Financial Markets, Credit Markets, or Capital Markets 
 Relevant Changes such as New Regulations, GAAP Standards, Transaction Litigation (e.g., Anti-Trust) 
 Natural Disasters or Geopolitical Changes (e.g., Outbreak of Hostilities, Risk of War, Acts of Terrorism) 
 Failure to Meet an Agreed-Upon Revenue, Earnings, or Other Financial Performance Target
Failure to Meet an Agreed-Upon Revenue, Earnings, or Other Financial Performance Target 
Read More → Material Adverse Change: The ABCs of MACs 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
77 
MERGERS & 
ACQUISTIONS 
QUESTIONS 
Contrast asset sales vs. 338(h)(10) election vs. stock sales. 
 
Sale Type Description Tax Implications 
Asset Sales 
  In an asset sale, the seller will sell the 
assets to the buyer with each asset 
contractually sold.  
 Once the buyer holds all the assets, it 
controls the business by having 
everything that made the seller’s 
equity worth something.  
 In the asset sale, the buyer gets the incremental 
D&A tax benefits – meaning, the tax basis of 
assets is stepped up, which creates tax-
deductible D&A and future cash tax savings. 
 But the seller potentially faces double taxation 
– first on the corporate level and then on the 
shareholder level. 
Stock Sales 
  In a stock sale, the seller gives the 
buyer shares.  
 Once the buyer holds all the target 
shares, it controls the business from 
being its new owner. 
 In a stock sale, the buyer doesn't get a stepped-
up basis in the seller’s assets, which means the 
buyer cannot benefit from lower future taxes
up basis in the seller’s assets, which means the 
buyer cannot benefit from lower future taxes 
due to incremental deal-related D&A. 
 The seller is taxed only at the shareholder level 
(as opposed to the corporate level). 
338(h)(10) 
Election 
 A 338(h)(10) is something both 
buyer and seller can jointly elect to 
do, which gives you the tax treatment 
of an asset sale without the hassle of 
actually exchanging individual assets. 
 This applies to acquisitions of 
corporate subsidiaries or S-corps, 
and most applicable when the target 
has a high amount of NOLs. 
 A 338(h)(10) offers the benefits of stock sales 
along with the tax savings of an asset sale. 
 Legally, a 338(h)(10) is considered a stock sale 
but treated as an asset sale for tax purposes. 
 The seller is still subject to double-taxation, but 
the buyer can benefit from the tax advantages 
of the step-up of assets and the NOLs – leading 
to a higher purchase price. 
Read More → Asset Sale vs. Stock Sale
to a higher purchase price. 
Read More → Asset Sale vs. Stock Sale 
Contrast a friendly acquisition and hostile takeover attempt. 
 Friendly Acquisition: A friendly acquisition is when the takeover bid was made with the consent of both 
companies’ management teams and boards of directors. The two had previously agreed to come to the 
table and negotiated on good terms. The target's board will notify their shareholders of the bid and 
decision, and in most cases, the shareholders will follow the lead of the board.  
 Hostile Takeover: Conversely, a hostile takeover usually comes after a failed friendly negotiation. The 
target's management and board of directors have expressed their objection to the acquisition, but the 
acquirer has continued pursuing a majority stake by going directly to the shareholders. 
What are the two most common ways that hostile takeovers are pursued? 
1. Tender Offer: In a tender offer, the acquirer will publicly announce an offer to purchase shares from
existing shareholders for a premium. The intent is to acquire enough voting shares to have a controlling 
stake in the target's equity that enables them to push the deal through. 
2. Proxy Fight: Alternatively, a proxy fight involves a hostile acquirer attempting to persuade existing 
shareholders to vote out the existing management team to take over the company. Convincing existing 
shareholders to turn against the existing management team and board of directors to initiate a proxy 
fight is the hostile acquirer's objective, as the acquirer needs these shareholders' votes, which it does by 
trying to convince the company is being mismanaged.  
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
90  
LEVERAGED 
BUYOUT 
QUESTIONS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Leveraged Buyout Questions   
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
91 
LEVERAGED 
BUYOUT 
QUESTIONS 
Private Equity Investing 
 
What is a leveraged buyout (LBO)?  
In a leveraged buyout, a private equity firm (often called the financial sponsor) 
acquires a company with most of the purchase price being funded through the use of 
various debt instruments such as loans, bonds. The financial sponsor will secure the 
financing package ahead of the closing of the transaction and then contribute the 
remaining amount. 
Once the sponsors gain majority control of the company, they get to work on 
streamlining the business – which usually means operational improvements, 
restructuring, and asset sales intending to make the company more efficient at 
generating cash flow so that the large debt burden can be quickly paid down. 
The investment horizon for sponsors is 5-7 years, at which point the firm hopes to exit by either: 
 Selling the company to another private equity firm or strategic acquirer  
 Taking the company public via an initial public offering (IPO)
Taking the company public via an initial public offering (IPO) 
Financial sponsors usually target returns of ~20-25% when considering an investment. 
For private equity interviews, getting an interview in the first place is the toughest part for most 
candidates. So if you received an interview, most interviewers will assume you already possess the 
technical knowledge.  
First round interviews are closer to discussions regarding your interest in investing and past deal 
experience, in addition to questions about your investment thought process. These discussions, while 
seemingly behavioral, are actually very technical and it'll soon become apparent whether you know 
what you're talking about or not. 
A few examples of these discussion-type questions would be: 
 Tell me about a portfolio company of ours that you would (or would not) have invested in and give 
me your prediction on how the investment has performed so far. 
 Which industry are you most interested in pursuing an investment within?
 Which industry are you most interested in pursuing an investment within? 
 Tell me about an investment theme you have in mind and why you think it's an interesting 
opportunity? 
 If our firm was looking at a new investment opportunity in [specific sub-industry], how would you 
approach diligence to determine if it's an investment worth looking further into or not? 
In general, standard technical questions come up less common during private equity recruiting. But to 
speak competently during deal walk-throughs and investment rationale discussions, as well as to 
perform well on LBO modeling tests, an understanding of the fundamentals behind private equity 
investing and leveraged buyouts in required – which we'll cover in detail in this section. 
Each year, Bain publishes a Global Private Equity Report we suggest reading to learn more about how 
the industry has been performing as a whole, as well as recent trends in exit valuations and the number 
of exits by type. 
Watch Video → 
Introduction
of exits by type. 
Watch Video → 
Introduction  
to LBOs 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
92 
LEVERAGED 
BUYOUT 
QUESTIONS 
Explain the basic concept of an LBO to me using a real-life example. 
One metaphor to explain an LBO is "house flipping," using mostly borrowed money. Imagine you found a house 
on the market selling for a low price, in which you see an opportunity to sell it later for a higher price at a 
profit . You end up purchasing the house, but much of the purchase price was financed by a mortgage lender, 
with a small down payment that came out of your pocket. In return for the lender financing the home, you have 
a contractual obligation to repay the full loan amount plus interest. 
But instead of purchasing the house to live there, the house was bought as a property investment with the plan 
to put the house back on the market in five years. Therefore, each room is rented out to tenants to generate 
monthly cash flow. The mortgage principal will gradually be paid off and the periodic interest payments are
paid down using the rental income from the tenants. Home renovations are completed with the remaining 
amount and any existing property damages are fixed – again, using the rental income.  
After around five years, the house is sold for a price higher than the initial purchase due to the improvements 
made to the house and because the house is located in an area where home values have been increasing. The 
remaining mortgage balance will have to be paid in full, but you pocket a greater percentage of the proceeds 
from the sale of the house because you consistently paid down the principal. 
Read More → LBO Analysis on a Cocktail Napkin 
What is the intuition underlying the usage of debt in an LBO? 
The typical transaction structure in an LBO is financed using a high percentage of borrowed funds, with a 
relatively small equity contribution from the financial sponsor. As the debt principal is paid down throughout
the holding period, the sponsor will realize greater returns at exit. Therefore, private equity firms attempt to 
maximize the amount of leverage while keeping the debt level manageable to avoid bankruptcy risk. 
The logic behind why it's beneficial for sponsors to contribute minimal equity is due to debt having a lower 
cost of capital than equity. One reason the cost of debt is lower is that debt is higher on the capital structure – 
as well as the interest expense being tax-deductible, which creates a “tax shield.” Thus, the increased leverage 
enables the firm to reach its returns threshold easier.  
What is the typical capital structure prevalent in LBO transactions? 
LBO capital structures are cyclical and fluctuate depending on the financing environment, but there has been a 
structural shift from D/E ratios of 80/20 in the 1980s to around 60/40 in more recent 
years.  
The different debt tranches include leveraged loans (revolver, term loans), senior
years.  
The different debt tranches include leveraged loans (revolver, term loans), senior 
notes, subordinated notes, high-yield bonds, and mezzanine financing. The majority of 
the debt raised will be senior, secured loans by banks and institutional investors before 
riskier types of debt are used. In terms of equity, the contribution from the financial 
sponsor represents the largest source of LBO equity. Sometimes, the existing 
management team will rollover a portion of their equity to participate in the potential 
upside alongside the sponsor.  
Since most LBOs retain the existing management team, sponsors will usually reserve anywhere between 3% to 
20% of the total equity to incentive the management team to meet financial targets. 
What are the main levers in an LBO that drive returns? 
1. Debt Paydown (Deleveraging): Through deleveraging, the value of the private equity firm's equity 
grows over time as more debt principal is paid down using the acquired company's free cash flows. 
Watch Video →
Watch Video → 
LBO Capital 
Structure 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
93 
LEVERAGED 
BUYOUT 
QUESTIONS 
2. EBITDA Growth: Growth in EBITDA can be achieved by making operational improvements to the 
business’s margin profile (e.g., cost-cutting, raising prices), implementing new growth strategies, and 
making accretive add-on acquisitions. 
3. Multiple Expansion: In the ideal scenario, the financial sponsor hopes to exit an investment at a higher 
multiple than entry. The exit multiple can increase from improved investor sentiment, better economic 
conditions, increased scale or diversification, and favorable transaction dynamics (e.g., competitive 
auction led by strategics). 
What attributes make a business an ideal LBO candidate?  
 Strong Free Cash Flow Generation: The ideal LBO candidate must have predictable, FCF generation with 
high margins given the amount of debt that would be put on the business. To make the interest payments 
and debt paydown, consistent FCF generation year-after-year is essential and should be reflected in the 
target's historical performance.
target's historical performance. 
 Recurring Revenue: Revenue with a recurring component implies there's less 
risk associated with the cash flows of the company. Examples of factors that make 
revenue more recurring include long-term customer contracts and selling high-
value products or services required by customers, meaning the product/service is 
necessary for business continuity (as opposed to being a discretionary, non-
essential spend). 
 "Economic Moat": When a company has a "moat," it has a differentiating factor 
that enables a sustainable competitive advantage, which leads to market share and 
profit protection from outside threats. This effectively creates a barrier against competition. Examples of 
deterrents include branding, patents, proprietary technology, economies of scale, network effects, and 
switching costs. 
 Favorable Unit Economics: High margins are a byproduct of good unit economics, a well-managed cost
structure, low capital expenditures, and minimal working capital requirements. These factors all lead to 
more FCFs being available to make interest payments, paydown debt principal (required and optional), 
and re-invest more into operations of the business. In addition, when a company's unit economics is 
consistently better than the rest of the market, this is oftentimes an indication of a competitive advantage. 
 Strong, Committed Management Team: Qualified management teams will have a proven track record, 
which can be proxied by the number of years working with one another and their past achievements. The 
importance of the management team cannot be overstated, as they're the ones executing the strategic plan. 
 Undervalued (Low Purchase Multiple): While finding undervalued companies has become increasingly 
difficult as more capital has flooded the private capital markets, many private equity firms pursue
opportunistic buyouts where the company can be acquired for a lower price due to external factors. For 
example, an industry may have fallen out of favor temporarily or come under pressure due to macro or 
industry-related trends, which could allow a firm to complete the purchase at a discount. Since a lower 
entry multiple was paid, the opportunity for value creation through exiting at a higher multiple (i.e., 
multiple expansion) is greater while the risk of having overpaid is reduced. 
 Value-Add Opportunities: For traditional LBO firms, the ideal target will be very well-run, but there 
should be some areas of inefficiencies that can be improved upon. These represent opportunities for value 
creation such as selling non-core business assets, taking cost-cutting measures, and implementing more 
effective sales & marketing strategies.  
What types of industries attract more deal flow from financial buyers? 
 Non-Cyclical/Low-Growth: Industries with stagnant to low growth tend to attract higher amounts of
Non-Cyclical/Low-Growth: Industries with stagnant to low growth tend to attract higher amounts of 
interest from private equity investors, as many companies will turn to inorganic growth once organic 
Watch Video → 
Ideal LBO Target 
Characteristics 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
94 
LEVERAGED 
BUYOUT 
QUESTIONS 
growth opportunities seem to have diminished. In an effort to continue growing and increase margins, 
companies will turn to M&A and start acquiring smaller companies. Therefore, these strategics represent 
potential buyers, which means there'll be a viable exit plan from the perspective of a private equity firm. 
Usually, these industries are non-cyclical and mature with minimal disruption risk, making them the ideal 
industry for private equity firms that specialize in add-ons (i.e., “buy-and-build”) and pursue fragmented 
markets where the consolidation strategy is more viable.  
Subscription-Based/Contractual: Industries with business models based around long-term customer 
contracts are viewed favorably by private equity firms, especially if the business model is based around 
subscription models, as these companies are known for having recurring, stable revenue from reliable
commercial customers. B2B enterprise software companies are valued at such high multiples consistently 
and sought after by private equity firms for this very reason. 
High R&D Requirements: Industries involving technical products will usually have a lot of deal flow 
because incumbents will prefer to acquire companies with proven technologies rather than building them 
in-house, which would require significant amounts of time and resources. For that reason, many private 
equity firms will pursue smaller niche players and grow them, knowing there will be strategic buyers later 
on interested in acquiring the company for their technology. These companies will often have significant 
pricing power and an established niche, making them ideal targets for PE investors.  
Potential Synergies: Certain industries will have more opportunities for synergies to be realized. This can 
come in the form of revenue synergies such as upselling, cross-selling, and product bundling, as well as in
the form of cost synergies, such as benefiting from economies of scale and reducing redundant costs. For 
example, industrial technology and software is known for being two of the best industries for upselling and 
cross-selling to existing customers, while healthcare services such as dental clinics and psychiatry 
treatment centers are known for having inefficient cost-structures that can benefit significantly from cost 
synergies through increased scale, operational improvements, and streamlining processes.  
Favorable Industry Trends: The potential investment should be well-positioned to benefit from ongoing 
industry tailwinds. This means that incremental improvements are going on in the industry that could be 
potential add-ons that provide more value to their customers, as opposed to industry-disrupting 
developments that would create the need for significant investments to adjust to the changing landscape.  
What would be the ideal type of products/services of a potential LBO target?
What would be the ideal type of products/services of a potential LBO target? 
Mission-Critical: The ideal product or service should be essential to the end markets being served and the 
discontinuance of the product or service's usage should be detrimental to business continuity. In other 
words, the customer should be unable to function without this product/service due to how deeply 
embedded it has become in its operations. 
Recurring/Contract-Based: Revenue from long-term, contractual-agreements 
is highly regarded by private equity investors. For instance, enterprise software 
companies are known for having predictable revenue due to their subscription-
based business models and long-term contracts with commercial customers. 
High-Switching Costs: The decision to switch to another provider should come 
with high switching costs that make customers reluctant to move to a 
competitor. This would mean the costs should outweigh the benefits of moving 
to a lower-cost provider.
to a lower-cost provider. 
High-Tech: The more technical the product, the higher the barrier to entry and more pricing power over 
its end markets due to the lack of competition. In effect, this leads to more stable, low-risk cash flows, with 
the optionality to increase prices if necessary. The proxy for finding companies selling technical products is 
high R&D expenditures, patents/IP , and industry reputation. 
The quality of a 
company's revenue 
is determined by its 
predictability, 
defensibility, and 
certainty of being 
recurring. 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
95 
LEVERAGED 
BUYOUT 
QUESTIONS 
 Location-Based Competition: Certain private equity firms will pursue companies where competition is 
location-specific. This is more prevalent for service-oriented industries such as landscaping and 
commercial cleaning. The primary benefit is that these are fragmented markets with less competition and 
often involve long-term, contract-based customer relationships. 
What is the relationship between debt and purchase price? 
The relationship between debt and purchase price is another reason such large amounts of debt are being used 
in LBOs. The usage of debt enables a private equity firm to purchase companies of a particular size it could 
otherwise not purchase using equity alone or with a minimal amount of borrowed funds.  
In addition, the usage of high debt leaves the firm with more unused capital (called “dry powder”) for other 
investments or add-on acquisitions for their existing portfolio companies. 
How is the maximum leverage used in an LBO typically determined?
How is the maximum leverage used in an LBO typically determined? 
The debt-to-equity mix in private equity deals has hovered around 60% debt/40% 
equity as M&A activity stabilized since the 2008 financial crisis. However, leverage 
varies significantly across industries, besides being specific to the target company's 
fundamental qualities.  
Debt/EBITDA has hovered in the 5.0x to 7.0x range and is pressured upward as overall 
valuations increase. When LBOs emerged as a type of M&A transaction in the 1980s, 
debt represented as much as 90% of the capital structure. But this has come down 
because of the risks inherent to high debt burdens.  
Why might a private equity firm not raise leverage to the maximum leverage, even if it had the 
option to do so? 
Generally, a private equity firm will want to maximize the amount of debt without endangering the company 
and putting it at risk of default. The reason being more leverage means less required equity and the greater the
potential returns. But there are several reasons a private firm might intentionally raise less leverage than the 
maximum amount that can be raised from lenders: 
 Increased Default Risk: The firm may have doubts regarding whether the acquired company could 
support the additional debt. Even if the company is in a stable industry and has healthy credit ratios, it's a 
judgment call by the firm on how much debt to use as a percentage of its total debt capacity. 
 Negative Perception: The firm doesn't want to appear to be using excessive leverage at the company's 
expense. Nowadays, private equity firms pitch themselves as value-add partners and avoid having a 
reputation for extracting as much value as they can from a business for their benefit. 
 Decreased Fund Returns/Fundraising Implications: If a firm’s portfolio company declares bankruptcy, 
this would not only ruin the current fund’s returns, but it would make future fundraising efforts more
challenging. Lenders would also be less willing to fund the private equity firm in the future and companies 
(potential investments) would be reluctant to partner with them. 
 Planned Dividend Recap: The firm might be planning to do a dividend recapitalization later on, especially 
if it forecasts lower interest rates than the present day. Therefore, there would be remaining debt capacity, 
and the additional debt capital would be raised under better terms. 
Watch Video → 
Introduction to 
LBO Debt 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
CAPIT AL 
MARKETS 
QUESTIONS 
  
 111  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital Markets Questions  
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
112 
CAPITAL 
MARKETS 
QUESTIONS 
Debt & Leveraged Finance 
What is the difference between a bond and a leveraged loan? 
While some features of leveraged loans and bonds can overlap, the key difference is that that a loan is a private 
transaction between a borrower and a lender. The lender is a single bank or a small syndicate of banks or 
institutional investors. The interest cost is often LIBOR plus a spread, and the loan is often secured by collateral 
with strict covenants, while the repayment of principal can happen over time or as a bullet payment at the end. 
Given the collateral, earlier principal repayments, and covenants, loans are less risky and carry lower interest 
rates than bonds. 
Corporate bonds, in contrast, must be registered with the SEC and are public transactions. Bonds are issued to 
institutional investors and traded freely on the secondary bond market, leading to a broader investor base.
Bonds are usually priced at a fixed rate with semi-annual payments, have longer terms than loans, and have a 
balloon payment at maturity. Since bonds come with less restrictive covenants and are usually unsecured, 
they're riskier for investors and therefore command higher interest rates than loans. 
Putting it all together, below is a table outlining the typical features of debt used in leveraged finance: 
Read More → Ultimate Guide to Debt & Leveraged Finance 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
113 
CAPITAL 
MARKETS 
QUESTIONS 
What is the difference between investment-grade and speculative-grade debt? 
 Investment-Grade Debt: Investment-grade debt (often called high-grade debt) has a credit rating above 
BBB/Baa. This category of debt is issued by companies with a strong credit profile. Investment-grade debt 
is considered safe, given the low risk of default.  
 Speculative-Grade Debt: Speculative-grade debt has a credit rating below BB/Ba. These types of debt are 
issued by more leveraged companies with a riskier credit profile. Given this increased risk of default and 
bankruptcy, the interest rates on these riskier debts will be significantly higher to compensate investors 
for taking on the additional risk. 
What does it mean when a debt tranche is denoted as 1st lien or 2nd lien? 
Lien is defined as the seniority and the priority of payment to a debt holder relative to the other tranches. A
lien is a legal claim against the assets of a borrowing company (i.e., used as collateral) and the right to seize 
those assets first in forced liquidation/bankruptcy scenarios. 
 1st Lien Debt: The highest seniority, 1st lien, is fully secured by the company’s assets and has the first 
claim to collateral in a liquidation/bankruptcy scenario (e.g., revolver, term loans).  
 2nd Lien Debt: Right below 1st lien loans sits 2nd lien where compensation is provided only if there's 
collateral value remaining once 1st lien lenders are repaid in full. These debt types are riskier and more 
expensive for borrowers (e.g., high-yield bonds, mezzanine financing). 
Tell me about the different classifications of term loans. 
 Term Loan “ A”: TLAs refer to secured loans syndicated to banks and are typically 
packaged alongside a revolving credit facility. TLAs have shorter terms (~5 years), 
carry higher amortization levels than other term loans, and are amortized evenly 
over their tenor (i.e., “straight-lined”).
over their tenor (i.e., “straight-lined”).  
 Term Loan “B,” “C,” or “D”: An institutional term loan (B/C/D) is a loan facility 
syndicated to institutional, non-bank investors such as hedge funds, CLOs, mutual 
funds, and insurance companies. These term loans differ from TLAs in having 
longer terms while requiring no principal amortization before maturity – instead, they involve nominal 
amortization with a bullet payment due at maturity. TL B/C/Ds are more prevalent in LBOs than TLAs, as 
B/C/Ds have less strict covenants, longer terms, and require less principal amortization each year. The “B,” 
“C,” or “D” designation is more indicative of the investor base than the priority rank. 
What is the difference between a secured and unsecured loan? 
 Secured Loans: If a debt instrument is secured, that means the debt is backed by collateral. The assets of 
the borrower were pledged as collateral to get favorable financing terms. If the company were to go
bankrupt, the lenders have a legal claim on the pledged collateral. Leveraged loans are secured by 
collateral and are the safest security class for a lender. Most term loans and revolvers in the leveraged loan 
market are syndicated to institutional investors such as hedge funds, CLOs, and mutual funds.  
 Unsecured Loans: For unsecured loans, pension funds, mutual funds, insurance companies, hedge funds, 
and some banks are typically willing to invest in this relatively riskier type of debt for the higher yield. 
How are leveraged loans usually priced? 
Leveraged loans are usually priced off LIBOR plus a spread. In addition, loans often include a LIBOR floor , so an 
example would be a pricing of “LIBOR + 3%” (300 basis points) with a LIBOR floor of 2%, so the interest rate 
can never dip below 5%. 
Watch Video → 
Term Loans  
and Revolvers 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
114 
CAPITAL 
MARKETS 
QUESTIONS 
What does LIBOR stand for? 
LIBOR stands for “London Interbank Offered Rate,” representing the global standard benchmark used to set 
lending rates. LIBOR is the rate at which banks lend amongst each other. For lenders of debt instruments with 
floating rates, the debt pricing will be based on LIBOR, the standard interest rate. However, LIBOR is expected 
to fade away in use as UK regulators have voiced a desire for LIBOR to be phased out by the end of 2021. 
What is SOFR, the expected replacement of LIBOR? 
Coming up on the horizon and expected to replace LIBOR eventually, the Secured Overnight Funding Rate 
(SOFR) is a measure of the borrowing costs of cash collateralized by Treasury securities. Said another way, the 
SOFR is a Repo-based funding rate of the observed transactions overnight.  
In terms of debt terminology, what does the coupon rate mean? 
The coupon rate simply refers to the annual interest rate (“pricing”) paid on a debt obligation. The interest
expense is based on the outstanding principal amount and is modeled as a percentage of the beginning and 
ending balance of the relevant debt tranche. In terms of payment dates, senior bank debt pays interest each 
quarter, whereas most bonds pay interest on a semi-annual basis. 
How does the coupon on a bond differ from the yield? 
The coupon represents the annual interest rate paid based on the notional principal of the bond, while the 
yield is the annual return on the bond, including the coupon payment adjusted for the premium or discount of 
the purchase price when held to maturity. One difference is coupons are fixed for the bond's term, whereas 
yields move with the markets. 
What does it mean when a bond is trading at a discount, par, or premium? 
 Discount: Price < 100, Yield is Greater than Coupon 
 Par: Price = 100, Yield is Equal to Coupon 
 Premium: Price > 100, Yield Less Than Coupon 
What is the difference between a fixed and floating interest rate?
What is the difference between a fixed and floating interest rate? 
 Fixed Interest Rate: A fixed interest rate means the interest expense to be paid is the same regardless of 
changes to the lending environment. A fixed interest rate is more common for riskier types of debt, such as 
high-yield bonds and mezzanine financing.  
 Floating Interest Rate: A floating interest rate is tied to LIBOR plus a specified spread (i.e., LIBOR + 2-
4%). This pricing type is seen more often for senior debt tranches (e.g., term loans, revolvers). 
When would an investor prefer fixed rates over floating rates (and vice versa)? 
If interest rates are expected to fall in the near-term future, investors would prefer fixed rates. However, if 
interest rates are expected to increase, investors would prefer floating rates. 
What are some different debt amortization schedules? 
The debt amortization schedule refers to the amount of principal the borrower must repay annually.
The debt amortization schedule refers to the amount of principal the borrower must repay annually. 
Compliance with this payment schedule is mandatory and not optional for the borrower. 
Types of Debt Amortization Schedules: 
 Bullet Maturity: The entire loan payment is due at the end of the loan’s lifespan. 
 Straight-Line Amortization: Principal payments must be repaid in equal installments until maturity. 
 Minimum Amortization: Entails lesser amounts of annual payments (e.g., ~5-10% per year) – therefore, 
the entire principal will not have been paid off at maturity. 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
115 
CAPITAL 
MARKETS 
QUESTIONS 
What is a callable bond and how does it benefit the issuer or borrower? 
A callable bond can be redeemed by the issuer prior to its maturity, with the decision being at the issuer's 
discretion. A callable bond enables the issuing company to pay off the debt earlier if they have more free cash 
flow remaining in the period and can refinance at lower interest rates.  
From the investor's perspective, a callable bond gives more optionality to the issuer, so the debt holders are 
compensated with higher interest rates (compared to non-callable bonds). 
When would the prepayment optionality of certain debt tranches be unattractive to lenders? 
Some debt instruments include provisions that enable the borrower to repay some principal ahead of the 
payment schedule without the incurrence of any financial penalties. However, other lenders may include a call 
protection feature that prohibits borrowers from prepayment until a pre-specified duration has passed. The
reason being that certain lenders prefer to disallow prepayment as it implies the receipt of more interest 
payments in the future.  
For instance, if the borrower pays more principal off early, the annual interest payments (inflows to the lender) 
in the future are reduced since interest is based on the beginning and ending balance of the debt outstanding. 
A bond has a call protection clause of NC/2. What does this mean? 
Many HYBs will have call protection clauses that last two or three years (denoted as NC/2 and NC/3, 
respectively). Some are often NC/L, which means the bond is not callable for the term's entire duration. Once a 
bond becomes callable, the borrower may repay some (or all) of the debt balance and pay less interest. The 
caveat is that the prepayment penalties could offset those savings on interest – thus, HYB’s classification as an 
expensive financing source.  
Therefore, NC/2 means the bond has call protection for two years. Once this two-year period has passed, the
borrower can repay the debt along with the prepayment penalty fee. 
What is a revolving credit facility and what purpose does it serve to the borrower? 
The revolver refers to a company’s revolving line of credit drawn down when the 
free cash flow being generated is insufficient. The revolver acts as a “corporate 
credit card” for urgent situations. The borrower typically draws from the revolver 
to meet its short-term working capital requirements after an unexpected, 
temporary shortage in liquidity. Ideally, the lender doesn't want the revolver fully 
drawn frequently as it signals a deterioration in cash flows. 
What is the undrawn commitment fee associated with revolvers?  
A revolver typically comes with a small < 1% fee, which is an annual fee paid out to the lender. The borrower is 
charged an annual fee on the unused amounts, called the undrawn commitment fee. 
What is the difference between an asset-based loan and a cash flow revolver?
What is the difference between an asset-based loan and a cash flow revolver? 
The maximum amount that can be drawn from an ABL revolver is based on the company’s liquid assets. Thus, 
the amount is tied to borrowing-base lending formulas to limit borrowing to a certain percentage of the 
collateral – most often inventory and accounts receivable (e.g., 80% of A/R + 65% of Inventory) 
The maximum amount that can be borrowed for cash flow revolvers is tied to the borrower's historical and 
projected cash flow generation. Therefore, covenants are more restrictive due to the uncertainty around future 
cash flows. Unlike physical assets such as inventory, a company's future cash flows cannot be pledged as 
collateral or seized in bankruptcy, hence its less favorable terms. 
The revolver 
provides the 
borrower with the 
optionality to 
drawdown, repay, 
and reborrow on an 
"as-needed" basis. 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
116 
CAPITAL 
MARKETS 
QUESTIONS 
Why do revolvers normally not have a leverage test? 
In most cases, revolvers will only have an interest coverage ratio test (e.g., > 2.0x EBITDA/Cash Interest) and 
have the simplest covenant structure relative to other tranches of debt. This is because the revolver has the 
highest priority in the capital structure and has a priority claim to the borrower's assets.  
Therefore, the lender that provided the revolving credit line is unconcerned if the borrower raises additional 
debt, since this means the company has more cash available (on which the revolver has the first claim). In the 
scenario that the borrower undergoes bankruptcy, the revolver will almost certainly be made whole. 
What is unitranche debt and its benefits? 
Unitranche debt financing is a blended hybrid of senior debt and subordinated debt. The distinct 
characteristics of unitranche debt are that it's just one tranche of debt instead of two (as the name suggests),
and the debt is priced at a blended interest rate. Traditionally, there would be 1st and 2nd lien debt, and the 
borrower would have to get financing from two (or more) different lenders, which could make securing 
financing packages a time-consuming process. But in recent years, non-bank institutional lenders began to 
provide the entire package and customize it based on negotiations. 
The main advantage to borrowers over traditional credit facilities is that it enables borrowers to have “one-
stop-shop” financing (i.e., the convenience factor). The borrowers would have only one set of loan documents, 
one set of covenants, and a much simpler and faster process to close.  
What is the difference between a bond’s coupon rate and the bond’s current yield? 
The coupon rate (“nominal yield”) represents a bond’s annual coupon divided by its face (par) value. The 
current yield on a bond equals the bond’s coupon payment divided by the bond’s price.
current yield on a bond equals the bond’s coupon payment divided by the bond’s price.  
For example, a bond trading at 90 with a $100 face value and a $6 coupon has a 6% coupon rate and a current 
yield of 6.7% ($6/90). While the coupon rate is always the same, the current yield fluctuates based on the 
market price of a bond. 
What is the difference between current yield and yield to maturity?  
The current yield on a bond equals the bond’s coupon payment divided by the bond’s price. The current yield is 
a way to discuss coupon rates when the bond price deviates from par. For example, a bond trading at 90 with a 
$100 face value and a $6 coupon has a 6% coupon rate and a current yield of 6.7% ($6/90). 
Unlike YTM, the current yield is not the true yield of a bond as it doesn't capture any yield associated with 
principal recovery, nor does it assume the reinvestment of coupon payments. The YTM is the internal rate of
return of a bond. YTM considers coupon payments, principal recovery, assumes reinvestment at the same rate 
(an iterative process), and time to maturity. 
Could you define fixed income and name a few examples? 
Fixed-income securities provide their investors with a stream of fixed periodic interest payments and then the 
return of principal at the end of its term. The fixed amount of interest is paid in the form of coupon payments, 
usually semi-annually. While all bonds technically fall under fixed income, fixed income usually refers to low-
return, low-risk bonds (as opposed to mezzanine financing and HYBs). Examples include treasury notes, 
treasury bonds, treasury bills, municipal bonds, money markets, and certificates of deposits (CDs). 
What does the money market refer to and what is the typical maturity range? 
The money market refers to the purchase and sale of large quantities of short-term bonds and other debt
instruments overnight. The maximum maturity of these short-term bonds is 397 days (~13 months), and the 
investors are usually risk-averse with limited risk appetite. 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
INDUSTRY 
SPECIFIC 
QUESTIONS 
  
 165  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Industry Specific Questions   
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
166 
INDUSTRY 
SPECIFIC 
QUESTIONS 
Industry Specific Section Introduction 
  
Before we begin the industry specific section, we wanted to give some words of advice. 
It is rare to encounter industry related questions unless you're interviewing with a sector focused firm 
or for a specific group placement. Alternatively, you may encounter industry related questions if you 
bring up your personal interest in an industry on your own accord.  
Each industry covered in this section contains questions related to: 
 The recent trends and ongoing developments within the specific industry 
 The unit economics of companies (revenue and cost drivers) within the specific vertical for 
financial modeling purposes 
The ability to demonstrate an interest in an industry is one of the best ways to differentiate yourself.  
Instead of expecting to be asked these questions word-for-word, identify an sub-industry or two that's 
of interest to you and strive to understand the underlying concepts, and then try to bring them up
of interest to you and strive to understand the underlying concepts, and then try to bring them up 
yourself when you're discussing your interest. 
In addition, we have included questions on: 
 Company-specific details on the industry’s key players 
 Historical events that helped shape the industry to how it operates today 
 Technical terminology that you're not expected to know (especially if you're an undergraduate 
student); instead you'll learn this while on the job 
If constrained on time, you should feel no obligation to review these extra questions. Instead, just 
ensure that you're aware of a few key industry trends. 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
167 
INDUSTRY 
SPECIFIC 
QUESTIONS 
Technology, Media & Telecommunications (TMT) 
 
What are the most common types of business models in the telecom and media industry? 
 Traditional Equipment Sales/Wireless Services: The first category comprises the traditional range of 
telecommunications equipment, networking products, and wireless services (e.g., Wi-Fi plans, cable 
television). As the oldest segment in TMT , recent revenue growth has been very low because this type of 
revenue is related to one-time equipment sales and then monthly plans, making revenue growth a function 
of geographic expansion (which has begun to stall). However, companies in this space tend to benefit from 
high operating leverage, barriers to entry, and lack of competition; hence, the anti-trust concerns. The 
incumbents are few and include companies such as AT&T , Verizon, and T-Mobile.  
 Subscription-Based Streaming: The next category would include companies such as Netflix, Hulu,
Subscription-Based Streaming: The next category would include companies such as Netflix, Hulu, 
Spotify, in which business models are built around new customer acquisitions, minimizing churn, and 
increasing pricing by offering more value than their competitors. For companies in this segment, user 
count growth is the priority and many have no clear pathway towards becoming profitable without first 
achieving significant scale. Streaming has quickly become one of the most competitive spaces across all 
industries as traditional industries such as cable television and radio have been completely disrupted and 
new developments appear (e.g., cloud gaming, Esports) 
 Advertising: This category would include companies such as Facebook, Twitter, and Google, which are 
companies that focus primarily on metrics such as MAU and DAU. Given their reliance on advertising, user 
engagement a key measure when assessing these companies' recent performance. While industry growth
engagement a key measure when assessing these companies' recent performance. While industry growth 
has been very strong for years now, particularly for the leading companies, the greatest hurdle looking 
ahead appears to be increased efforts by regulatory bodies to restrict user data collection and attempts to 
break-up these tech monopolies (citing anti-trust regulations). 
 Media Networks/Diversified Entertainment: This category involves companies that create, acquire, and 
distribute programming content such as movies, films, theater events, and other media content. Through 
their broad reach, these companies can produce revenue from various segments such as advertising, 
affiliate fees, subscriptions, product sales, and licensing. Companies under this category could be best 
described as "media conglomerates" and examples include ViacomCBS, Disney, and NBCUniversal. 
  
For our section on the TMT industry, we'll focus more on telecom and media as we have a separate
For our section on the TMT industry, we'll focus more on telecom and media as we have a separate 
section on the SaaS industry right afterward – albeit, there's a fair amount of overlap. 
The two sections were separated as SaaS tends to involve metrics specific to early stage startups, 
whereas M&T interview questions are generally more about industry trends and the competitive 
landscape. Relative to SaaS companies, most telecom and media companies are valued in more 
traditional methods due to the industries being more mature and established.  
SaaS companies, particularly those in the early-stages of growth, have their own set of metrics to 
evaluate their performance and use operational KPI based valuation multiples. 
When it comes to following the technology news, sources such as TechCrunch, The Verge, and Gizmodo 
are great resources to stay up-to-date. But for more insightful commentary on the business side of 
technology and media, we suggest following Ben Thompson's blog, Stratechery.
technology and media, we suggest following Ben Thompson's blog, Stratechery.  
 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
168 
INDUSTRY 
SPECIFIC 
QUESTIONS 
What are a few notable trends going on in the TMT industry right now? 
 Convergence of Business Models: More companies are increasingly stepping outside into different 
segments either organically or through M&A. For instance, Google has countless subscription-based 
services, such as YouTube Music and Google Play Pass, as well as new ventures into communication 
services through Google Voice, home devices through Google Home, streaming through Chromecast, and 
fitness through its acquisition of Fitbit. Facebook has also been active by entering social commerce through 
Facebook Shops, music and video content creation through Creator Studio, and livestreaming through 
Facebook Pages and Facebook Watch Party. While this should come as no surprise for FAANG companies, 
this trend includes companies in low-growth segments as well, such as AT&T, which has continued its 
efforts to establish itself in streaming through AT&T TV, DIRECTV, U-Verse, and WatchTV. ViacomCBS is
also planning to release its new streaming service Paramount+ in 2021. 
 Scale-Oriented M&A: There have been many mergers of equals in recent years such as the merger 
between CBS/Viacom, Time Warner/AT&T, and T-Mobile/Sprint, which were all significant industry-
changing mergers that raised regulatory concerns. Growth opportunities have run out in these areas, thus 
the pursuit of market leadership through consolidation of these low-growth industries has become more 
common due to the benefits from cost synergies, operating leverage, and diversification. 
 "Streaming Wars": 2020 was a transformative year for the streaming video industry, as COVID-19 
accelerated the adoption of video streaming with consumers streaming unprecedented amounts of video 
content through providers such as Netflix and Hulu. The competition has intensified as of late as more 
companies are increasingly moving into the streaming market, with some of the most notable entrants
being Disney+, Apple TV+, HBO Max, Peacock, and Quibi just to name a few. 
 Hosted Online Events: As lockdowns and social distancing measures prevented large social gatherings 
and events, many events have shifted to digital means. This has benefited media segments such as e-sports 
and livestreaming in particular. The number of major live musical or cinematic events hosted in real-time 
online has also increased with positive reception from consumers. The trend is expected to pick up and 
become more frequent in 2021 after a slow start following the initial outbreak in early 2020. 
 5G & Edge Computing: 5G and edge computing are forecasted to be two of the highest growth segments, 
with adoption being led by large enterprises and increased B2B collaborations such as AT&T and 
Microsoft's multi-year alliance to work on the cloud, AI, and 5G. This trend is cited as being a central 
catalyst before 5G can reach mass adoption since 5G requires edge computing for its full capabilities to
become more widely accessible given its reliance on the edge-computing infrastructure (likewise, edge 
computing requires more applications with 5G capabilities, particularly for mobile). 
 Consumer Usage of AI Assistants: Sales in artificial intelligence (AI) assistants have increased amongst 
consumers and adoption is expected to increase, despite the security concerns. Many attribute this to 
work-from-home (WFM), which has led to consumers increasingly spending more on their homes (and 
thereby benefiting the "smart home" trend). This trend concurs with consumers' changed spending habits 
where more money is spent on their homes as seen in the record spending on gardening, home 
renovations, and various home-improvement projects. 
  
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
169 
INDUSTRY 
SPECIFIC 
QUESTIONS 
Which valuation metrics are common to see for traditional telecom companies? 
The category of traditional telecom companies would include mobile telecom service providers, convergent 
telecom service providers, cable operators, and data centers/infrastructure providers. 
The traditional telecom industry is capital-intensive with high fixed costs, which are typically financed using 
debt as these companies operate in a highly concentrated, mature industry with minimal cyclicality. Because of 
the large amount of debt in their capital structure, telecom companies will incur substantial debt-related 
expenses. In addition, high amounts of depreciation will be recognized each year given their large fixed asset 
base. Another notable consideration is the tax incentives from the government provided for research & 
development (R&D), especially as the US attempts to build out its 5G infrastructure.
development (R&D), especially as the US attempts to build out its 5G infrastructure. 
For the reasons stated above, accrual-based earnings are volatile year-over-year (YoY), making equity value 
based multiples like P/E less useful. Instead, the most commonly used valuation multiple is EV/EBITDA, but 
often EBITDA is on a run-rate basis or normalized over several years to account for inconsistencies.  
EV/(EBITDA – Capex) is also common to see, as many consider it a better approximation of operating free cash 
flow given the capital intensive nature of the telecom industry and the need to adjust for capex. Telecom would 
be an example of an industry where trailing (L TM) and forward (NTM) multiples would be truly necessary to 
fully understand the valuation trends. 
Unique to telecom companies, other multiples include EV/Data Centers, EV/Net PP&E, EV/Route Miles, 
EV/Fiber Miles, and EV/Access Lines in Service, EV/Broadband Subscribers, and EV/Broadcast Revenue.
As a side note, considering how diversified many of the traditional telecom companies have become, it may be 
necessary to perform a sum-of-the-parts valuation (SOTP). 
What metrics would you use to measure user engagement? 
In the context of media companies, user engagement is the level of involvement a customer has with a 
particular product, such as a website, application, or online platform. Higher user engagement rates imply 
users derive value from the product (leading to continued usage). This is of high importance for media 
companies because user engagement leads to customer retention and more recurring revenue. 
User Engagement KPIs 
 Daily Active Users (DAU) and Monthly Active Users (MAU) 
 Active Subscriber Count 
 Time Spent In-App Per Day or Week 
 Pageviews/Website Hits 
 Churn Rate (Retention %) 
 Conversion Rate (Free  Paid Plan) 
Which multiples are most commonly used to value modern media companies?
Which multiples are most commonly used to value modern media companies? 
For high-growth media companies, operational KPI-based multiples are very common due to many of them 
being unprofitable or barely profitable. Traditional cash flow based metrics fail to capture the true value of 
many of these companies. By virtue of many of these companies having the objective of acquiring new 
customers, large losses will inevitably be incurred. Therefore, it would be unreasonable to assess a growth-
oriented company based on profitability-based cash flow metrics.  
EV/Revenue is often looked at, but it may not be the ideal multiple to look at if user growth is currently being 
prioritized over monetization. Instead, user count, growth in new customers, and the churn rate are the key 
value drivers used to assess performance. And multiples such as EV/MAU, EV/DAU, and EV/Monthly 
Subscriber Count may provide a better indication of the company's value. 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
170 
INDUSTRY 
SPECIFIC 
QUESTIONS 
For a company with a product meant for high frequency in usage, what is one way to assess user 
engagement? 
A popular metric for measuring the level of user engagement ("stickiness") is the ratio between daily active 
users (DAU) and monthly active users (MAU). The DAU/MAU ratio, expressed as a percentage, is the proportion 
of monthly active users that engage with an application in a single day. 
DAU: MAU = Daily Active Users
Monthly Active Users × 100 
For example, if the company's app has 500 DAU and 1,000 MAU, then the DAU/MAU ratio is 50%. This can be 
interpreted as the average user engaging with the app roughly 15 days in a 30 day month. 
According to Sequoia, the standard DAU/MAU is between 10% and 20%, but certain apps such as WhatsApp 
can easily top 50%. Note, this metric would only be useful for products with daily use (e.g., social media, 
messaging platforms, mobile applications). It wouldn't be useful for products that don't require daily use. For
example, this metric would be useful for companies such as Facebook, Twitter, and Snapchat, but not applicable 
for Airbnb, Uber, and Lyft. 
What are economies of scale and could you give me an example? 
Economies of scale occur when the per-unit costs of production decrease as output increases. These cost 
savings from greater scale will result in higher margins. The cost per unit decreases as more output units are 
produced because the costs are being spread over the increased number of goods. An example of a company 
benefiting from economies of scale would be Apple. Because Apple sells millions of iPhones each quarter, it can 
commit to component purchases at a massive scale with significant negotiating leverage that results in volume 
discounts (and a lower average cost per unit). 
What effect does having high operating leverage have on the scalability of a business? 
The operating leverage represents the proportion of a company's cost structure that consists of fixed costs, as
opposed to variable costs. Thus, companies with a higher proportion of fixed costs in their costs structure have 
greater operating leverage. 
 High Operating Leverage: If the company has high operating leverage, each 
additional dollar of revenue can be brought in at higher profits once the fixed 
operating costs are paid. Thus, each marginal unit is sold at a lesser cost, 
creating the potential for greater profitability since fixed costs such as rent and 
utilities remain the same regardless of output. 
 Low Operating Leverage: If a company has high variable costs, each 
additional dollar of revenue may generate less profit as costs proportionally 
increase alongside increased revenue (i.e., the variable costs offset the 
additional revenue). If revenue were to increase, these costs would rise in tandem (or vice versa). 
Can you give me an example of a company benefiting from operating leverage?
Can you give me an example of a company benefiting from operating leverage? 
An example would be a telecom business that has finished building out its network infrastructure. Initially, the 
business will incur substantial upfront capex to enable connectivity and network capabilities (e.g., equipment 
purchases, construction, security implementations).  
But once the network has been built out and operations are running, each new customer acquisition comes at a 
low incremental cost, as the cost of adding one customer to an existing network is inexpensive. Most of the 
expenses incurred are mostly maintenance-related later on. The initial investment will eventually be earned 
back and what remains is a high margin business with recurring revenue.  
If a company has 
high operating 
leverage, earning 
outsized profits on 
each incremental 
sale is plausible. 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
260  
BEHAVIORAL 
QUESTIONS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Behavioral Questions   
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
261 
BEHAVIORAL 
QUESTIONS 
Behavioral Section Introduction 
 
Broadly, there are four categories of behavioral questions: 
1. Personal Background Questions 
The first category entails questions regarding your “story.” These questions are received right at the beginning 
of an interview and are an opportunity for you to introduce yourself formally. These types of questions are 
predictable, yet arguably, the most important part of the interview, as your answers to these questions will set 
the tone for the rest of the interview. 
What interviewers are looking for are candidates that appear hardworking and more importantly, have a track 
record of success. This is the purpose of your resume and why it's so important for recruiting.  
Your resume should highlight your list of past accomplishments because they're proof that you're capable of 
doing the job and have been committed to working towards this goal for a long period. 
2. Firm Specific Questions
2. Firm Specific Questions 
The next category of questions should convey your interest in joining the specific firm. The interviewer wants 
to assess how much you know about the firm and what they do and understand why you want to join this firm.  
There are two types of candidates: those that understand the role they're applying for (and the firm's 
background) and those who applied to every firm they could find. 
It should go without saying which type you need to be. Not understanding the tasks you'll be responsible for on 
a day-to-day basis and not even knowing the firm's basic background is one of the fastest ways to remove 
yourself from the list of potential candidates. 
  
Personal 
 Firm Specific 
 Experience 
 Elevator Test 
While the focus of this guide is on the technical portion of the interview, we wanted to leave you with 
some guidance on how to navigate behavioral questions. 
A candidate can possess all the technical knowledge in the world yet still fail to receive an offer if they
neglected the qualitative requirements when firms give out offers. These non-technical questions are 
where you have an opportunity to demonstrate that you're someone who possesses the self-awareness 
and emotional intelligence to handle the rigors of investment banking.  
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
262 
BEHAVIORAL 
QUESTIONS 
3. Past Experiences & Situational Questions 
Considering the interviewer will have your resume on hand, expect to be asked to expand upon your past work 
and leadership experiences. 
However, you're not being asked to regurgitate the bullet points on your resume. The interviewer knows how 
to read. Instead, this series of questions is based on two core questions: 
 How have your experiences prepared you for this position? 
 Does this candidate have the right personality and decision-making skills required to perform well? 
The interviewer doesn't want a laundry list of tasks you have done, as he/she can already see the type of work 
involved in your internships/leadership experience. Instead, the question is asked to understand better why 
you believe that your past experiences apply to the position you're interviewing for and how this will make you 
a more suitable candidate.
a more suitable candidate.  
Included in this section are situational questions, which are an extension of the questions regarding your 
experiences. But rather than asking what you did in the past, these questions are asked in a more hypothetical 
format to see how you would react in specific situations. However, you should still try your best to tie your 
responses back to a past (or similar) experience. 
For example, if you're asked how you would react to a rude, passive-aggressive employee – most likely, you'll 
not have a direct experience that you can bring up as an example. Instead, you can talk about non-work related 
past interactions with these people and how you reacted and connect the similarities. These types of questions 
allow the interviewer to gain insight into how you would react in specific circumstances on the job (e.g., stress, 
workplace conflict) and how you approach problem-solving. 
4. Elevator Test Questions
workplace conflict) and how you approach problem-solving. 
4. Elevator Test Questions 
The last category of questions refers to your interviewer trying to determine whether you're someone they 
could see themselves working alongside for 60+ hours each week. 
These types of questions test your soft skills more than anything and your ability to find a mutual connection 
or interest with the interviewer, or at the very least, casually converse with them. 
From the perspective of the interviewer, they're asking themselves:  
 If I ran into this person on the elevator, would it be a conversational or an awkward encounter? 
 Would I want to grab a drink with this person outside of work hours? 
 Does this person have an interesting life outside of work?  
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
263 
BEHAVIORAL 
QUESTIONS 
Behavioral Interview Advice 
But before we dig deeper into each section of behavioral questions, we would like to provide some more 
guidance on how to approach answering these questions to increase the odds of leaving a good impression and 
receiving an offer. This section is a continuation of the interview advice provided at the beginning of the guide, 
but pertains more to the interview's social aspect rather than the technical portion. 
Relax, and Just Be Conversational 
Right from the onset of an interview, your goal should be to turn the interview into a casual 
conversation with friendly back-and-forth dialogue. For this reason, the initial impression you 
leave while shaking the interviewer's hand and answering the first question (i.e., “Tell me about 
yourself”) is essential because it conveys your ability to fit into the culture. You must begin the 
interview on the right foot and immediately come across as someone personable, as it's very difficult to recover
from a bad first impression. 
Firms are not only looking for intelligent, hardworking candidates. They're also searching for candidates that 
are easy to communicate with and fit in well with the firm’s culture. 
For starters, avoid stepping into an interview room under the mindset that you're about to get interrogated, as 
your nervousness will unquestionably be visible in your body language and speech. Instead, view this as a 
conversation between two professionals: a young professional and a more experienced professional that could 
become a potential mentor. Doing so will put you in the right mentality – this interview is an opportunity to 
progress in your career, take some pressure off yourself. 
Remember, the person sitting across from you was once a college student (maybe even just a few years ago) 
and understands exactly what it was like to be in your shoes. However, we'll emphasize that you must strike the 
right balance between sounding professional without coming across as overly casual.
right balance between sounding professional without coming across as overly casual.  
Structure Your Answers 
While this may come across as common sense, take the time to think before you speak.  
All of your responses should be well-thought-out and reflect that you can speak in coherent 
sentences and in a professional manner. There is no rush to get your words out. If you need to, 
take the time to pause and think before answering the question. A brief moment of silence is far 
better than saying something that you'll regret later. 
Not being rushed in your speech or fumbling over words shows the interviewer that you can handle pressure, 
which positively affects their perception of you as a viable candidate. 
If you feel yourself becoming tense or panicking, take a moment to calm your breath down and remind yourself 
to articulate your words clearly, as it's common for interviewees to unknowingly mumble and lower the
volume of their voice when nervous. As you face the questioning, appear patient and relaxed. 
And always remember the rule of “show, don't tell.” Let your past achievements and experiences speak for 
themselves. The interviewer wants anecdotal evidence from your past in your responses and to hear some 
exciting stories, not a list of adjectives. 
The most commonly referenced approach to answering interview questions is the “STAR” method. We 
recommend following a similar approach to give a well-rounded, effective answer that touches all bases. 
 Situation: Provide a contextual overview for the interviewer 
 Task: Explain what responsibility you were tasked with (or the problem you had to solve) 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
264 
BEHAVIORAL 
QUESTIONS 
 Action: Describe the specific thought-process behind the action you took (i.e., consideration factors) 
 Result: Discuss the outcome and how everything panned out in the end 
But when you follow a framework such as the one above, it's very easy to sound “robotic” and sound like you're 
just reciting what you remembered. Respond to questions in a professional, concise manner – but avoid 
sounding overly-rehearsed. 
Therefore, when you can – try your best to throw in some comments to make your answers flow better. 
 Original: “The firm I interned with over the summer specializes in the TMT sector, and our client was a 
managed service IT consulting company.” 
 Revised: “The firm I interned with over the summer specializes in the TMT sector, and our client was a 
managed service IT consulting company – which was interesting because I noticed your firm recently 
closed a transaction involving one of its closest competitors.”
closed a transaction involving one of its closest competitors.” 
These types of concise comments just make the conversation much more fluid. But just be aware that it can 
start a side conversation and make sure you don't lose track of where you're in your answer . In addition, avoid 
rambling in a completely different direction.  
Finally, when you explain the “Result,” rather than just stating the positive outcome and numbers as evidence – 
you should mention the lessons you learned from this experience and why this is relevant.  
Focus on the Positive Aspects 
For all of your responses, frame your answers in a positive light. This entails focusing only on 
the positive aspects without ever mentioning negative comments about a past employer, 
university, or work experience. There is always a way to spin something in a positive direction if 
one thinks hard enough. Many interviewers will intentionally attempt to trick you into saying 
something negative.
something negative.  
A few examples of these “baiting” questions include: 
 The school you're attending is a non-target for us. Do other investment banks even recruit there? 
 I see you majored in History. You regret that decision, right? 
 I have a friend that worked at [firm] in the past. I heard the office culture at [firm] is terrible – how did you 
manage? 
Recognize the interviewer is attempting to get you to agree with them and add something negative − don't fall 
for it. People want to spend time with and be around those that are optimistic and high energy. You would not 
want to work with someone that's negative all the time and constantly complaining, and the interviewer 
doesn't either. 
Every question can be reframed as more positive. For example, if you're asked a bland question such as “What 
do you know about our firm?” – answer the question as if you were asked, “What particular attributes stood 
out to you about our firm?” 
  
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
265 
BEHAVIORAL 
QUESTIONS 
"Roll with the Punches" 
Mike Tyson once said, “Everybody’s got a plan until they get punched in the face.” That’s what a 
confrontational question feels like the first time you get it, and you'll almost certainly get one. 
The most important part of handling these tough questions is not to appear rattled and 
remain composed. Many interviewees fall into a spiral after a tough question and never 
recover for the rest of the interview, which is exactly what your interviewer is trying to screen for. This advice 
is similar to our recommendation on navigating questions when you don't know the answer; the difference is 
that these questions are intentionally phrased to assess how you respond to being provoked with negative 
criticism. 
A few examples of these “Mike Tyson Questions” are: 
 Why did you not land an internship offer last summer? 
 Do you not have any other offers on the table right now? Would I be correct in assuming we are one of the
few firms that even gave you an interview? 
 I see that you have a 2.8 GPA. Typically, we hire 3.5 and above. What’s going on? 
 To be candid, this is not the strongest resume, and there are far more qualified candidates. Why should we 
even consider hiring you? 
These questions serve two primary purposes: 
1. They test whether you'll fold under pressure or handle your emotions without being offended – the 
interviewer knows their question was asked in an impolite manner. 
2. Their comment, the minor insult they just threw at you, usually has some validity behind it – this is not 
just a test to see how you react. Instead, it's an opportunity to address a real concern. 
The ability to not be offended and instead provide a strong, defensible answer in response is actually a great 
opportunity to differentiate yourself and be memorable as a candidate. The interviewer is doing you a favor by 
pointing out their concerns about your qualifications.
pointing out their concerns about your qualifications. 
You can view these confrontational questions as "low downside, high upside" questions because the truth is: 
what they're questioning can often be the actual reason you're rejected (e.g., low GPA, no relevant experience, 
less qualified). On the bright side, an enthusiastic response that shows confidence has the potential for the firm 
to see past this. 
Try to Differentiate Yourself 
When a candidate has put in the time and effort to prepare for the interview and researched the 
firm and the role, it becomes very apparent to the interviewer that they're serious about joining 
this firm. Understand that genuine interest and desire cannot be faked, and it shows not only in 
the depth of your answers but in the hours you spent preparing when nobody was watching.  
There should be no reason for you to be memorizing your responses to the behavioral questions if you're 
speaking the truth about your experiences and personal ambitions.
speaking the truth about your experiences and personal ambitions.  
If you want to see this in play, the next time you have a phone interview – close your laptop. You'll be surprised 
by how much better the conversation will flow when you're not distracted by a screen and trying to scroll to 
the right page while speaking.  
When you come up with or figure out something on your own, you tend to remember it more easily. For this 
reason, if you're struggling with behavioral questions, you've likely spent inadequate time reflecting on your 
past decisions or you're attempting to recite a sample response you read in an interview guide. 
This is a preview. The number of pages displayed is limited.
